aXet.maïa: a ticketing assistant, powered by AI aXet.maïa can help teams optimize ticket management with intelligent analysis, classification, and accuracy: all in one, integrated with your existing ticket management tools. It is part of the aXet platform. aXet. maïa - First steps Adoption Process Guide for aXet . maïa Follow these steps to successfully adopt and implement aXet.maïa for your project: These are the steps you must follow in each of the phases of the implementation process. POC • Identify an ADT that can help with the implementation. • Understand the project needs (Entry checklist). • Perform configurations and deploy. • Conduct data loading (either using a standard connector or employing some custom automation, according to the guidelines in the implementer's manual). • Carry out monitoring and testing. Project - Ensuring quality in the project • With the POC completed and understanding the system capacity, carry out monitoring. • Identify possible automated solutions. • Improve the tool. Once each phase is completed, you are ready to start using aXet.maïa.
aXet.maïa access With the application published and the link available, you will be able to access it, and the tool will already be configured according to a project from aXet . All individuals who have access to this project can become users of this instance of aXet.maïa . To do this, it is sufficient for an administrator to configure that user's profile in the application. First, open ‘ aXet Admin Panel’ in https://axet . nttdata.com/core/ , and select the project from the dropdown menu . Then, search for the new user in the search field and add this user to the project. The first step is to log into Okta. These are the steps to follow: 1. Access aXet. maïa web interface. 2. Log in to Okta platform. You can mark the ‘Keep me signed in’ check. 3. Select the option to verify your credentials.
4. Once logged into Okta, you can now access aXet. maïa to start working with it. Your user must have access to a project in aXet in order to use .maïa.
aXet. maïa – Interface Let's introduce the graphical interface of aXet.maïa . The ‘HOME’ screen is the first screen to be rendered in the application, being visible to all users of the application. These are the items in the left menu: • SLA DashBoard . The SLA dashboard screen is used to monitor the operation of the day and those that have expired where the SLA has been violated, visible only to Coordinators and administrators. • Application tickets . Screen responsible for displaying application tickets with their subsystem, visible only to Coordinators and administrators, its purpose is to display general tickets that exist on the platform, displaying the most important information in the list and the rest in the details section. It also includes similarity, classification and AI Proposal features. The application ticket panel not only shows information about the subsystem tickets, but also includes the AI section. • My Tickets . Screen for listing tickets for the logged - in analyst, where the tickets listed will be those that he/she will attend to. If in automatic assignment mode, the tickets will be listed as soon as the screen loads; if in demand mode, the analyst will have to cl ick the button to choose a ticket that meets the criteria of the logged - in profile. Its
purpose is to display the tickets that are pending for the logged - in analyst to attend to or to take ownership of a ticket. The analyst's ticket panel will list the tickets assigned to the logged - in user according to his/her profile and ticket specificatio ns, also obeying a series of rules such as validation of the flow configuration where we have some mappings for importing tickets. • Assignation . • User. Screen for listing users of the subsystem to be used in service and distribution of system tickets, along with their profile views. • Skills. Screen for listing system skills/queues and subsystems to be used in the system and ticket distribution. • Users / Skills massive. This screen is responsible for loading the Excel file containing the batch of users and skills/queues for system configuration. When loading, the system will identify the information and perform the configuration automatically. • RAG . Screen that lists all documents that have been uploaded, with some information such as document name, assigned tags, document type, upload status and buttons for download and delete, with the purpose of listing the documents to be used in the RAG, indicati ng whether the upload was completed and other information pertinent to the uploaded document, including a delete button to remove any unwanted documents. • Connectors. Home screen for data import connectors for the system, with import via Excel , JSON and JiraKosin. After selecting the connector type, the Next button will appear to continue with the configurations. Please note that this screen will only be available if there are no existing configurations for the subsystem. If you make the change, the previous config urations will be lost. • Jira Kosin Connector Screen . JiraKosin configuration screen, where with the appropriate settings it will be possible to test connectivity with Jira and configure the desired fields for data import. • Excel Upload Screen . Screen for importing data via Excel, where the Excel file must be configured with the data for import, both for the knowledge base and for ticket distribution.
• JSON Upload Screen . Screen for importing data via JSON , where the JSON file must be configured with the data for import, both for the knowledge base and for ticket distribution . • Admin . • Clients . Screen for listing the application subsystems (Clients), where it displays the information registered in the system. Only active clients are shown in the list. • Flow configuration . The flow configuration screen is responsible for all the rules of ticket distribution, sending to AI, mapping states, etc. Without this configuration, no data import rules will be executed; this is the second configuration needed for the system to functi on correctly with the necessary operational information. • OAuth API . Screen for configuring the API credentials of aXet.maïa . Once a new instance is deployed, these credentials can be configured through this screen.
aXet. maïa - Using it Plugin The aXet.maïa plugin is a browser extension that allows users to view open tickets related to their profile. The application also provides an artificial intelligence chat feature, enabling users to ask questions about the tickets interactively and efficiently. These are its main functionalities: 1. Authentication : The user must be authenticated via OKTA to access their information and tickets. 2. Ticket Viewing : The user must be able to view a list of open tickets associated with their profile and click on a ticket to view additional details. 3. AI Chat : The user must be able to interact with a chatbot to clarify doubts about the tickets.
SLA SLA Dashboard Based on the ID of the subsystem registered on the client page, a “select” is performed on the internal database of the asset, filtering and bringing all the tickets of the corresponding subsystem. The displayed tickets are those that are still in progress and have not been closed. Each operation has a specific SLA for the requests to be addressed. The system performs a calculation based on the information provided in the system configuration, thus creating the indicators so that management has visibility o f the deadlines regarding the operation's requests. The SLA is not only responsible for displaying these indicators but also for sending notifications for SLA violations as well as alerting about requests with high criticality.
SLA Configuration Screen responsible for SLA configuration, visible only t o Coordinators and Administrators . • Purpose. Configuration for the SLA to function correctly according to the client's needs, meeting the configured requirements. • Functionality. Stores the configuration to be applied in the SLA system, with the following configuration options: o Microsoft Teams . Once enabled, an ID of a chat in Teams will be required for notifications from that subsystem to be sent; this notification contains the SLA dashboard for monitoring the SLA of the operation. o Email list . Once enabled, one or more email addresses will be required for notifications from that subsystem to be sent; this notification contains the SLA dashboard for monitoring the SLA of the operation. o Scheduling . It is used for the client to define the days, execution interval, and the recurrence at which notifications and monitoring will be carried out for the configurations mentioned above. Application tickets Ticket details. Displays all the information contained within a specific ticket, regardless of what it is.
Similarity Panel . A panel that brings several tickets similar to the one the user is validating, along with the information of each ticket and its score indicating the percentage of how similar it is to the current ticket. Similarity Panel part of classification and AI proposal. A section within the screen that displays the classification of the ticket and the proposal suggested by the AI regarding that ticket based on the existing data load for model training. If these two AI responses are not generated at the beginning of the ti cket import, the user can request them by clicking the button on each panel to perform the classification or the AI proposal.
Analyst Ticket Panel Demand Assignment . This type of assignment will perform some validations as soon as the ticket is imported. Once these validations are met, the ticket will be imported into the system with a default user and will wait for a user to request capture, and upon meeting the val idations, it will be assigned to the analyst for service. Automatic Assignment . This type of assignment allows the system Manager to specify which group of analysts will handle the services for those specific tickets based on skill configurations. As soon as the ticket is imported, it will be automatically distributed among that gro up of analysts for service. Ticket service screen Listings of the ticket information for the analyst to perform their analyses for treatment, along with an AI assistant "BIA" where the AI analyzes the ticket to be processed to propose a way of handling it. The AI proposes an action to be taken, a response to the end user, and whether to reject the ticket or not. Once the analysis is performed by the analyst,
they must fill in the fields, select the type of status defined for the ticket from a list configured in the system to proceed with the ticket and be able to take another for the next service. Assignation User Listing Screen User Listing Screen Listing of the information of the system users, where each subsystem has its users created because from these configurations, the groups of analysts that will attend to that subsystem are defined.
New/Edit Users Screen Screen for creating and editing users of the application and its subsystem. • Functionality . This screen is for the creation and configuration of all users in the application, these configurations are responsible for defining what access the user will have, such as whether tickets will be directed to them or not. These fields are: o Client . Unconfigured field indicating in which subsystem the user is being registered. o Name . Name of the user for display in the system. o Unique cod e. Field for identification in platforms such as CRM, Jira, etc. o Corporate email . Short corporate email used for user validation within the company. o Profile . Profile that the user will have to define their level of access and permissions for ticket assignment.
o Okta Id . Company Okta ID for the user to log in to the system. o Linked queue . Fields listing the skills the analyst is linked to in order to receive tickets for handling. o Level of service . Definition of the user’s seniority in the system or operation. o Active . Defines whether the user is enabled to receive tickets or not, often used in cases of absence, vacation, etc. By default, this field is set to active upon user creation. Skills / Queue Listing Screen Listing of the information of the skills/queues of the system, where each subsystem has its skills/queues created because from these configurations it is defined who are responsible for their services and whether this type of ticket will be received by the operation Skills - Edit / New Screen
• Functionality . This screen is for the creation and configuration of skills/queues in the application. These configurations are responsible for defining which users will be responsible for that skill/queue, so the distribution system will adhere to the configurations es tablished by the user. The definitions of the fields are: o Client . By default, it is already selected with the current subsystem, and this cannot be changed. o Name . Name of the skill/queue to be represented exactly as in the system to be imported, used for the mapping of information between MAIA and the user's system. o Active . Defines whether the user is enabled to receive tickets or not, often used in cases of absence, vacation, etc. o User selection . Listing of all active users of the subsystem, allowing the selection of users who will be responsible for attending to that skill/queue of the system, thus creating a separation for ticket direction. Users / Skills Massive Screen • Functionality . This screen is responsible for uploading the Excel file containing the batch of users and skills/queues for the system configuration. Upon uploading, the system will identify the information and perform the configuration automatically. The screen includes the following fields and buttons: o Upload Excel . Field responsible for uploading the Excel spreadsheet to be loaded. o Download template . To download the template spreadsheet for the batch.
o Next . Once the Excel upload is completed, the button will be enabled to proceed with the import of the batch. RAG Screen Document Listing This screen is responsible for listing the documents uploaded by the user, allowing them to identify which documents are in their knowledge base. It has actions such as document download for viewing and deletion for removing documents from the knowledge ba se, and includes a status to indicate whether the document has already been inserted into the operation's knowledge base, thus being usable in the RAG of the subsystem. Document Upload This screen is intended for uploading documents to the knowledge base of the operation, which will be used in the RAG. The AI will perform an analysis of the request based on the documents in the knowledge base. The AI uses tags to easily identify the docu ment, and according to the configurations, it will conduct a more accurate analysis of what will be requested of it.
Jira Kosin Connector Jira Kosin Connector Screen Given the configurations, the system will establish a connection to Jira Kosin to list the fields for data import configuration. If there is no connectivity, it will display a message indicating that either the system is down or there is something wrong wi th the connection settings. Once the connection is established, several panels will be displayed below showing the fields to be configured. The mandatory fields required for the system to function will be displayed.
We also have a panel for configuring additional custom fields, following the same logic as the other configuration fields. The Jira Kosin configuration screen includes the following fields and buttons: • Rest API Jira . Field responsible for storing the value of the integration API URL with Jira Kosin. • Token . Field responsible for storing the value of the access credential for integration with Jira Kosin. • User Jira . Field responsible for storing the value of the access user for integration with Jira Kosin. • JQL . Field responsible for storing the value of the query to be performed on the Jira Kosin platform. • Test Connec t. Button that, once the above fields are configured, establishes a connection with Jira Kosin, bringing in the fields from the client’s tool.
• Field Client . Fields used by the system to transfer internal information, where the fields from the tool will be mapped to these internal fields. • Kosin Field . Fields imported from the Jira Kosin tool, which, once mapped, will transfer values to the system fields. • Following properties . Fields responsible for mapping the information, e.g., Custom_field1009.links.agent; with this information, the system will understand the structure of the object by capturing the value of “agent” contained in the Jira information for that field. • Change connector . Button responsible for changing the connector settings; once clicked, it will redirect to the first screen for selecting a connector, losing all configurations of any type of connector. • Process Dashboard . Button for redirecting to the log screen for the import of information from Jira Kosin. When the Jira connector is configured, the button will be active for redirection. Another occasion for redirection is during the first data import; once completed, it will redirect to the log screen for real - time monitoring of the information. Initial Load Screen Jira Kosin Screen for the initial load in the system, configured only for the current execution of all data to be imported into the subsystem for the first time, allowing for a cut - off date for import that is later than the date previously configured for the system. • Purpose . To perform an initial load independent of previous configurations, allowing for the capture of older data via JQL.
• Functionality . Given the configurations, the system will perform a load independent of previous configurations, aiming to capture more data in the first import so that older data can be imported without affecting the system's execution of the recurrence process for ret rieving new data or updating existing ones. The fields for this functionality are: o JQL . Field where the user will provide a query for capturing data in Jira Kosin according to their needs for the initial load of information, without the cut - off date field. o Load start date . Selection of a cut - off date where this date will be assigned to the value of created, meaning only data where the created field is greater than the selected cut - off date will be captured. Jira Kosin Console Screen Screen for the initial load in the system, configured only for the current execution of all data that will be imported into the subsystem for the first time, allowing for a cut - off date for import that is later than the date previously configured for the s ystem. • Purpose. Monitoring data import via Log. • Functionality . As soon as the data begins to be imported, the logging system will list the actions being taken for the import of the information. On the screen, we have a button for refreshing the screen and capturing the updated data; however, with each log update, th e system is automatically reloaded by default. Excel Connector
Excel Upload Screen Screen for importing data via Excel, where the Excel file must be configured with the data for import, both for the knowledge base and for ticket distribution. The Excel spreadsheet must have columns for configuration that cannot be repeated in the settings. Whenever a spreadsheet is loaded, it must contain data to be imported; otherwise, the system will not proceed with the process. On the screen, we have a conn ector switch button that follows the same logic as the Jira import screen; if clicked, it will lose all the configurations made for Excel. The Process Dashboard button for this type of connector will lead to the console screen where the imported batches an d the logs of the current import will be listed. Excel Configuration Screen Screen for configuring the Excel information so that the system assigns the properties and data into the system.
• Purpose . Configuration for mapping Excel fields to the MAIA system to ensure correct import. • Functionality . Once the Excel file is imported, the configuration screen for field mapping will be displayed. On the screen, we have the mandatory fields required by the system for data import and transition within the tool. The fields on the screen are: o Fields System . Display field where the values are the system fields to which the information will be assigned, both mandatory and non - mandatory. o Fields Client Require . Fields listed from the Excel file that will be assigned to the system fields. o Fields System Custom . Display field where the values are the system fields to which the information will be assigned, but customized by the user. o Fields Client Custom . Fields listed from the Excel file that will be assigned to the customized system fields. Excel Log Screen Screen for executing data imports and monitoring logs and batches created in the system for each import.
This first screen will be the first listed, indicating the number of records to be imported. To proceed with the import, you must click the ‘Run the import’ button, where the system will initiate the import of the information, creating a batch for the performed load. Given the start of the import, the log screen will begin to list what is being recorded in the import of the information. When the system saves the data, it will already display the imported batch with the information for monitoring the load. The columns of the panel are:
• Total . Represents the number of data entries to be imported into the system. • Done . Represents the number of data entries that have already been imported into the system. • Pending . Represents the amount of data remaining to be imported into the system. • Status . Indicates the status of the loaded batch, with "InProgress" for ongoing imports; as soon as the batch processing is completed, the status "Complete" will be displayed. • Create date . The date of the load creation. • Update date . Represents the date of the last update made to the batch. Client Features Client Listing Screen Screen for listing the application subsystems (Clients), where it displays the information registered in the system. Once registered, it will be displayed in the list with the following information: • Id . This Id is responsible for separating all the information in the system into subsystems. • Name . Identifier of the subsystem by name, which can be configured in any way. • Active . Identifier of the state of the subsystem, indicating whether it is active or inactive.
Client Edit or Creation Screen Screen for creating or editing application subsystems (Clients), where all information of the subsystems is linked by this Client. • Purpose . Separation of subsystems within the platform, these subsystems are known as clients. Once configured, all information will be assigned to these subsystems. • Functionality. The creation of Clients (subsystems) is important for the functioning of the platform, as this creation allows the system to separate all information created into subsystems. It is the first configuration to be performed when a new instance is created for use, and without this configuration, the system will not be able to link any data on the platform. Flow Configuration The flow configuration screen is responsible for all the rules of ticket distribution, sending to AI, mapping states, etc. Without this configuration, no data import rules will be executed; this is the second configuration needed for the system to function correctly with the necessary operational information. Below are the specifications of each panel and their configurations for understanding. Assignment Panel Panel where the assignment configurations are located within the platform.
• Skills . Checkbox to indicate if the user wishes to perform distribution on the platform following the skill/queue system, where through the creation of skills a group of analysts will be linked for the service of a specific subsystem. • Automatic assignment . Checkbox to indicate automatic assignment. Given the skill settings, the system will perform data import and be automatically directed to analysts as soon as the configurations are met. The system will only distribute this for "open" tickets that do not already have analysts assigned to them. • Assignment on demand . Checkbox to indicate demand assignment, which means that as soon as the ticket is imported into the platform and its status is "open" with no user assigned, the tool will assign a default user "MAIA" so that when a user requests a ticket on the analyst s creen, the ticket meeting the business rules will be assigned to the analyst for their service. In other words, tickets remain in a type of queue awaiting service. • Historical similarity / AI . Checkbox that, when checked, will open a new panel for some configurations. This option allows the system to ignore the skill system and handle distribution via AI prompts, where the user will provide the rule for the AI to analyze the ticket and the lis t of analysts registered in the subsystem, allowing the AI to decide which analyst will attend to the specific ticket. Configuration of Assignment rules Panel where the prompt for the business rule is located.
• Prompt assignment . Area where the user will provide the business rule for the AI to make a decision about the ticket and the analysts in the subsystem for the distribution of the ticket. Example of a rule: "Assign the ticket to the analyst with the lowest volume of tickets in service, using the property 'volumetickets' which indicates the number of tickets being handled by each analyst." With this, the AI will perform an analysis and assign the resulting analyst to the ticket. Status maped Panel where the state configurations of the platform are located, where the client's states will need to be mapped to aXet.maïa . The platform has the states "open," "In Progress," "Canceled," "Resolved," "Blocked," and "Rejected," where the system maps the user’s states and transforms them into the platform's states. Without these configurations, the system will not perform any data import. • Enable Proposal . Once enabled, the system will take "open" and "In Progress" tickets during data import and send them to the AI. It will analyze a knowledge base of tickets and return some resolution information for that ticket for the analyst to
follow up on to resolve it. This functionality is also present in the analyst service screen and the similarity screen. Classification Panel where the classification settings of the platform are located. • Enable Classification . Once enabled, the system will take the "open" and "In Progress" tickets from the data import and send them to the AI. It will analyze the sent data with the configured fields to classify it, and the fields are: o Classification Fields . Field for the ticket to be classified; this function is also present on the similarity screen. o Edit - > Deterministic rules. Field for the identification of a deterministic rule on which the system can base its classification without the need to go through an AI. o Edit - > Function. Field for configuring the deterministic rule on which the system can base its classification without the need to go through an AI. The system will read the function, receiving the ticket as a parameter, and if the function returns anything other than "null ," the system will place that result in the ticket classification field. If "null" is returned, the system will proceed with sending the information for the AI to take action for classification. o Prompt. Field for the user to provide a prompt for the AI to consider during the ticket classification. Similarity Panel where the similarity settings for the platform's tickets are located.
• Similarity Fields. It represents which fields of the system the user wants this similarity to be based on. With this configuration, the system sends the data to the AI, which will analyze it against the knowledge base to determine which meet the requirements and return the a nalyzed information to the screen.
aXet. maïa – FAQs I want to start a proof of concept/implementation of aXet.maïa. What should I do? Look for the ADT (Automation Development Team) in your country or structure, as they will help you guide the next steps: kickoff, assessment, etc. What type of information should not be sent to aXet.maïa? You must not share, disclose or upload content to aXet that may be considered: - Customer information without first receiving appropriate permissions from the customer and your account leadership team, as applicable, and in accordance with customer contracts and requirements. - Special categories of personal data. What tools does aXet.maïa connect to by default? aXet.maïa connects by default with tools such as JIRA and Excel; however, the ADT team can customize integrations with other tools if necessary during an implementation. Since aXet.maïa is within the aXet.flows platform, data integration customizations, among others, are permitted. For what types of operations is aXet.maïa indicated? aXet.maïa is mainly indicated for automation and monitoring operations within the company, general support operations, and BPO operations. Any operation that works with managing tickets for N1, N2, or N3.
What kind of benefits can I have by using aXet.maïa in my operation? aXet.maïa can assist with more operational tasks, such as ticket management, SLA control, categorization, and automatic assignments. Additionally, it can help analyze the resolution of tickets, acting as an agent in incident resolution, proposing solutions, utilizi ng chatbots that provide operational documents, performing dispatches, automatic cancellations, and possible automated resolutions. How can I better understand aXet.maïa's resources and what it can do for me? A demonstration? You can look for the ADT in your region or send an email to axet.maia@emeal.nttdata.com How do I manage access in aXet.maïa? aXet.maïa has an integration with aXet.Core , which is used by aXet.gaia . In other words, an instance of aXet.maïa is associated with a project from aXet.gaia . Therefore, users who have access to this specific project may or may not become users of aXet.maïa , depending on the profile management you perform within the tool itself. Since aXet.maïa has its own access profiles, it is up to the administrator or manager to grant the appropriate permissions to each person within the operation. How do I provide feedback on the product? axet.maia@emeal.nttdata.com How do I manage questions or incidents?
If you have any questions, issues, or suggestions, you can contact the aXet.maïa team via the email axet.maia@emeal.nttdata.com.
aXet. maïa – Glossary This is a glossary of relevant terms: • Generative AI Generative Artificial Intelligence is a field of Artificial Intelligence that encompasses systems and algorithms capable of generating new, original, and creative content. This type of AI learns from enormous datasets and generates new similar content (tex t, images, music, and other types of data). It falls within a specific type of Machine Learning known as Deep Learning, which is based on the use of deep neural networks. These networks are configured in various architectures, such as Generative Adversaria l Networks (GANs) or diffusion models based on Transformers. • Machine Learning Machine Learning is a branch of computer science that aims to enable computers to perform tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so. These are models that can gradually improve their accuracy based on the data provided. Its most basic application is the practice of using algorithms to process data, learn from it, and then be able to make a prediction or suggestion about something. It comprises three categories of learning: supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning. • Supervised Learning Supervised Learning is a type of learning in Machine Learning models that relies on labeled data and has high accuracy and easily interpretable results, which is why it is widely used in industry. Its main drawback is that it requires data to be previously labeled (which can be costly or unfeasible in many cases). • Unsupervised Learning Unsupervised Learning is a type of learning in ML models that uses unlabeled data and, unlike Supervised Learning models, can detect hidden patterns in the data without human intervention. This includes clustering algorithms, for example, to group customer s into segments and detect similar behaviors. • Reinforcement Learning Reinforcement Learning is a type of learning in ML models where the machine is guided to learn from the repetition of actions and associated rewards. The agent, representing the machine, takes actions in an environment and receives rewards when correct dec isions are made. Over time, the agent learns to choose the correct
actions to maximize its reward. Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback is the technique behind large language models like asistente conversacional. • Neural Networks Neural networks are a type of computational model that teaches machines to process data in a way inspired by the human brain. It consists of a set of units, called artificial neurons, connected to transmit signals. The input information passes through the neural network (where it undergoes various operations), producing output values. • Deep Learning Deep Learning is a type of Machine Learning that uses complex neural networks with three or more layers. These neural networks attempt to emulate the behavior of the human brain — though far from matching its capacity — but allow it to "learn" from large amoun ts of data. While a single - layer neural network can make approximate predictions, additional hidden layers add complexity to the model and help optimize its accuracy. • GAN Generative Adversarial Networks, or GANs, are a method based on training two neural networks, one called the generator and the other the discriminator, which compete with each other to generate new instances that resemble the training data distribution. • LM and LLM – Large Language Models Language models (LM) are machine learning models that predict the next word in a sentence, considering the context of previous words. They are based on a probabilistic description of language phenomena. A colossal language model or LLM, also called a large language model, is a language model consisting of a neural network with many parameters, trained on large amounts of unlabeled text through self - supervised or semi - supervised learning. These models can be used in a wide range of natural language processing tasks, such as text creation, document summarization, or language translation. • NLP Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a field within artificial intelligence and applied linguistics that studies interactions using natural language between humans and machines. It focuses on processing human communications, breaking them into parts, and i dentifying the most relevant elements of the message. With Natural
Language Understanding and Generation, it aims for machines to understand, interpret, and manipulate human language. • Prompts A "prompt" in AI refers to an instruction or request that a user makes to an LLM, chatbot, or AI model. This instruction can come not only in natural language (text or audio) but also in other formats like images or code. The careful and concise preparatio n of these instructions is known as "prompting," and it ultimately aims to obtain the desired results or responses from LLMs or generative models of images and videos. • Token In the context of large language models or LLMs, a token is a basic unit of information for text processing. These tokens generally correspond to words or phrases, but they can also be punctuation marks or numbers. Transforming text into chains of tokens a llows LLMs to process user prompts and generate corresponding responses. A model like could handle 4,096 tokens or around 8,000 words. The number of tokens processed in an input grows as more complex LLMs are trained. • Transformer It is a neural network architecture that has served as the basis for deep learning models used in modern generative AI models. Transformers specialize in processing sequential information, such as natural language, and for this, they employ the self - attent ion mechanism, where different weights are given to each part of the input. These models take a sentence in the form of a sequence of vectors, convert it into an encoded vector, which is then decoded into an output
sequence. This architecture was proposed by a group of Google researchers in 2017, in the seminal paper "Attention is all you need." • RAG Retrieval - Augmented Generation (RAG) is a methodology to optimize LLMs so that they take into account a reference knowledge base when generating responses. This way, with RAG, we augment LLMs' capabilities with internal or specific information that has bee n trained with large volumes of generic data.
