aXet.wise: Your AI assistant aXet.wise is a plug&play solution designed to seamlessly integrate with your workflow. You can attach files, browse websites, integrate your SharePoint sites, and more - All to leverage GenAI's powerful capabilities effectively. Elevate your daily tasks with conversations that are enriched and contextualized to meet your needs. aXet.wise - Security & Compliance Information provided by the user (prompts, files, URLs, or SharePoint sites): • Are not available to other users or customers. • Are not used to improve modelos aXet. The files uploaded in My sources section: • Are not available to other users or customers. • They are private only to the user who uploads the files. The projects in My projects section: • Are only visible to you until you share it with other users. • aXet.wise delegates all the permissions management to SharePoint: o When selected to QnA will only use the documents you have access to create the answer. o Only documents tagged as Public and Internal are processed (not Confidential and Strictly confidential are processed), following Microsoft confidentiality tags (LTP). All user - provided information is securely contained within .wise environment, ensuring that data does not leave the EMEAL subscription boundaries.
aXet.wise – Access A ccess .wise here . • If it is your first time, you will need an additional step which will be completed in a forms . • Once it's ready, you'll soon be granted access to .wise . Keep an eye out for an email with all the information you’ll need to get started! Important: Your user must have access to a project in aXet in order to use . wise .
aXet.wise – Interface Let's introduce the graphical interface of aXet.wise . Here you can see the home page of .wise . These are the points highlighted in the image: 1. New conversation . Click on this button to start a new conversation with .wise . Recommended if you are going to change the conversation context, to obtain better answers. 2. Advanced features. The Advanced features are designed to perform predefined tasks using your input along with system - configured settings. There are three available: • Web Search & Summarize ; performs a websearch on the topic you provide and generates a clear, concise summary of the results. The search is done in list of predefined websites. • Custom Websearch & Summarise ; make a websearch on a topic and add your own URLs to the web search. • Excel Consultant ; upload your Excel files and ask insightful questions while providing context for each column . • Document Comparison on a topic ; designed to assist users in analyzing and contrasting two documents related to a specific topic.
3. Sources menu . In each section you find different sources that can be included as context for your prompts. o My sources . Items uploaded by you (documents, images, URLs or topics). o Company sources . Relevant information selected by the company. o My projects . Your company documentation from your selected SharePoint sites, or projects shared with you. 4. Templates . Pre - defined and ready - to - use prompts categorized into different areas. The use of templates, saves time in preparing the prompt, and helps the system provide more accurate responses. 5. Saved chats menu . List of saved chats, allowing you to retrieve and seamlessly continue the conversation. 6. Favourite prompts menu . You can save and manage your prompts, create custom templates for future use, and easily organize them. You have the option to add new prompts, edit saved ones, or delete those no longer needed. 7. User drop down menu . Provides quick access to various options and actions. • Profile selector. If you have more than one assigned profile, you can choose the desired one from here. • Language selector. • Links to legal texts. • FAQs where you can check most common asked questions. • Direct access to the Tour to see an overview of the application. • Feedback forms to submit your impressions and suggestions on the application. • Report malicious use. External platform to inform of a malicious use of the system. 8. Text box area . In this area you can write, modify and send the prompt. 9. Prompt wizard . Before submitting a prompt, the Prompt Wizard suggests an improved or alternative version of your input. Its purpose is to optimize system responses and help users create more effective prompts. You can choose to use either the suggested prompt or your original one.
10. Model selector . List of available models with the number of remaining tokens. In the model selector next to each model, you will see how many tokens are left. If the model has 0 tokens, you cannot select and use it. The current available models are: • - mini. Optimised, lightweight version of the model. • . Ideal for handling complex tasks that demand thorough and detailed analysis. • DALL - E3. For images creation exclusively. 11. Documents drop - down menu . It contains a list of the sources you've chosen as context for your prompt. 12. Insight Report. It independently uncovers, analyzes, and synthesizes information from a wide array of online sources. As a result, it will give you a report with an introduction and conclusion. 13. Web Search. It conducts a thorough search across various online sources and compiles a comprehensive summary of the information gathered.
aXet.wise - Using it My Sources From ‘My sources’ section, located in the side menu, you can add your own sources and then select them to use in the prompts. • The sources uploaded by you are completely private. This content is only accessible and can be consulted by yourself. • Once a new source is uploaded, the system will process its content, and the source will be available then to use it in the prompts. • This content will be deleted after 7 days. • You can upload up to 60 sources per day. Once this limit is reached, you will need to wait until the next day to upload more sources. The currently supported sources are:
• Upload file (documents and images). Selecting this option, you can upload documents and images, from these formats: o Documents: .pptx, .docx, .pdf, .txt , .xlsx, .csv . o Images: .png, .jpg. o For example, the next Release Note of the project you are currently working on. o The maximum weight for each document is 100MB. • News by topic. This option allows you to ask questions based on context, specifically related to news on a given topic. o The system has a wide list of sources (websites). You can see them selecting ‘Predefined list of websites ’ menu. o When you enter the topic, for example, "Real estate insights in 2024, " the system searches all those sources for information related to your topic and aggregates it. After that, you can select this topic from ‘My Sources’ and use it as context for your prompts. • Quick note. With this option, you can directly paste a piece of text without needing to upload it as a document . • Public URL . This option allows you to introduce a URL from any public website to process its content. For example: https://www.gartner.com/en/articles/ai - implementation. o First you introduce the website URL and give a name (optional). o Then, you can configure the number of depth levels to crawl from the website. The depth level on a website refers to how many layers of links the system ( .wise ) will explore starting from the main page/URL you provide. ▪ Main page only (default) : .wise will only process the content of the page you entered (the provided URL). ▪ Main page and pages one level down : The crawler will also visit the links found on the starting page and process their content. ▪ Main page and pages two levels down : The crawler will consider the links found on the pages of the previous level and so on.
o Once the settings are saved, the system will analyze and retrieve text from the specified website and chosen levels, allowing you to use the extracted content in prompts and ask relevant about it. o The URL will appear in My sources as a new source, identified by the website name. o It is possible to Refresh the URL to update the content, Edit the configured parameters and Delete the URL. My Projects In ‘ My projects’ section, you can include your preferred libraries from a SharePoint site into aXet.wise . This allows you to have your project documentation from SharePoint and use it as context in your prompts, with several benefits:
• Automatic documents updates from SharePoint to .wise (almost in real time). • You can share the project with other .wise users. Project creation consumes tokens, but sharing does not. When you share a project, the user will not consume tokens to process it. • You choose which libraries from the site to include in .wise . Project creation process To add your SharePoint site into wise, you just need to select + New project button. A pop up will appear with the information to be completed. • Project name . • SharePoint site URL. Introduce the SharePoint site URL. The URL of the site looks like this: https://everisgroup.sharepoint.com/sites/sitename/ (where site name is the name of your SharePoint site). • Libraries selector will be enabled with the list of libraries. There you can select which libraries you want to include. My project documents have OCR, so .wise will be able to read the images within your documents or scanned documents. By default this feature will be disabled, so, if you want to use it in your projects you will need to ask for it via user support indicating your use case. You will need to give the following details: Department you belong to, numer of users who will use this project aprox. and number of documents in the libraries aprox.
Links to ask for this feature are: • User support web (IBIOL users): https://umane.emeal.nttdata.com/jiraito/servicedesk/customer/portal/5 - Choose for a Request or an Incident for the aXet CI's . • User support web (NON - IBIOL users): https://help.global.ntt/sp?id=sc_cat_item&sys_id=f93accd58329da5088b5 4c026daad312 - Look for aXet in the Sympthoms . To use your projects for context to question, it is mandatory to complete an additional step: Log in to your Microsoft account , so that .wise can verify your SharePoint permissions. You need to log in with your Microsoft account and after that, you are ready to use your created projects. Share a project with a colleague The Project can be shared to other users.
To share the project, you need to introduce the user’s email (individually or attaching an Excel in case there are several emails). The email must follow this structure: david.perez.aguirre@nttdata.com. Sharing a project with a user does not grant access to the user to that library/site. The user must have access in SharePoint (otherwise .wise will not answer any prompt related with that project). Users with access to a project can “unsubscribe” from the project without impacting other users. My projects visibility for other users The section is private for each user. Other users will not see your created projects until you share it with them.
• The SharePoint permissions of each user on each document are considered. • For generating the response, .wise only considers the documents each user has access to in SharePoint. Error in documents If you have a library with documents in status “Error” you will now be able to know the origin of the error. At the project level you will see a warning icon indicating there is an “error”. By clicking on the 3 dots menu, there will be the option to “download error report” .
You will get an excel document with the following information: Library name, document name + extension and origin of the error. Company Sources Company Sources is a list of sites and libraries previously chosen by the application administrator. The aim is to have documents that are useful to all users. On a first level the SharePoint sites are displayed, and when unfolded, the libraries are shown. The information contained in Company sources cannot be removed (it is the administrator who manages it). How to ask With aXet.wise , you can use the sources as context for your questions ( My sources , My projects , Company sources ) or ask the system any open - ended question. • General questions (with no selected context) o For example, “Can you suggest interesting topics for a technology newsletter?” o The system will answer with the available knowledge from the models. o In this case, in the menu you need to have no selected items from My sources, Company sources and My projects.
If you are changing the conversation topic or selecting new sources, it is essential to start a new conversation to improve the system’s accuracy and efficiency. • Questions related to context provided by you (when there are selected sources, for example a document from My sources and My projects) o For example, “List the key topics covered in the document”. o The system will answer with the knowledge extracted from your documents selected. o As you will see explained in this section, you can upload, and then select different sources to use as context for the system and be able to ask questions related to it. • Questions related to context from company - provided sources (when there are selected sources from Company sources) o For example, “How many days do I get for moving according to the corporate policy?” or "What are the key features of aXet.wise ?“. o The system will answer with the knowledge extracted from the libraries or sites selected. Question assistance Prompt Wizard In the text area where you enter your question, there is a button that, when selected, automatically generates an enhanced version of your prompt. It adds more context and details, allowing the system to provide a more accurate response. You can also edit the improved version as needed. See the example below, where the introduced question was : “crear un resumen”.
Pre - defined questions. Templates In .wise you have pre - defined questions, available in ‘Templates’ section. Most templates function as pre - made questions .When you choose a template, the prompt is automatically inserted into the text box. You can edit the prompt to adjust any part if necessary. Once the prompt is submitted, the system will provide a response. Templates enable the quick creation of prompts while ensuring consistency by using a standardized question format. Results For each question you send to .wise , it automatically delivers an answer. You can keep asking the system, select new sources, copy the answer and open a new chat (recommended if you are changing the conversation context). In the system’s answer you will find these elements: 1. Answer provided by aXet.wise based on your prompt. 2. If there were sources selected (from ‘My sources’ , ‘My projects’ or ‘Company sources’ ), the number of these sources where .wise has based its answer will
appear. Selecting the arrow, displays the details of the sources used, showing their name. For documents from ‘My projects’ and ‘Company sources’ , these references will be clickable, allowing you to access them directly on SharePoint. 3. Option to copy the answer . 4. Save chat . Option to save the conversation and be able to open it at any time. 5. New chat . Deletes the current chat and opens an empty chat to start a new conversation. Recommended if you are going to change the context of the conversation. Quick actions Above the text box you´ll find a row of common ly used prompts giving you a quicker and easier access to go - to questions. When hovering over the prompt an informative text will appear, indicating the purpose of the prompt , so that you can select the one that fits better for you. Once you have received the first answer to a question, select a quick action and it will be automatically sent . Some of them display available prompts for that category , so that you can have quick, and at the same time, more specific prompts.
Save Conversation & Prompt My favorites questions You can save any question or prompt you have used as favorite. The highlighted icon in the image is available in all prompts and allows you to save it as a favorite. This allows you to access it anytime from the ‘ My Prompts’ section, without having to write it again. Save chat By default all your chats will be automatically saved. However, you can explicitly save the chats you want and categorize them. You will find all the conversations saved in the “Saved Chats” icon on the left - side menu. There are two tabs: • Saved chats: your explicitly saved chats
• Temporary chats: your automatically saved chats (they will remain here for 30 days) If you want to save any of the temporary chats as a persistent one, you can do so. When doing so, you can rename and categorize your chats and you will then find them in the “saved chats” tab. A dvanced features
The advanced features are designed to perform predefined tasks using your input along with system - configured settings. These are the advanced features available : 1. Web Search & Summarize , performs a websearch on the topic you provide and generates a clear, concise summary of the results. The search is done in list of predefined websites. 2. Custom Websearch & Summarise ; make a websearch on a topic and add your own URLs to the web search. 3. Custom Consultant ; upload your Excel files and ask insightful questions while providing context for each column. 4. Document Comparison on a topic ; designed to assist users in analyzing and contrasting two documents related to a specific topic Adv a nced features section is located in the menu. Once selected, the menu to use this advance functionality will be displayed with 2 tabs: • Features . To execute a new advance feature. • Executed features . To see the status of the executed advanced features.
Web Search + Summarize When selecting ' Web Search + Summarize' feature, you will need to specify the topic you want to search for, similar to how ‘News by Topic’ works. There is a list with the predefined websites where your topic will be searched. • Once the task begins, the agent will operate in the background. • You can monitor the progress of each task in the ‘executed features’ tab. • After the task is completed, selecting it will display the summary of the specified topic.
These are the points highlighted in the image: 1. Topic introduced. 2. Advanced feature result. Automatic summary of the information gathered from the predefined list of websites, based on the topic you provided. 3. Information sources . References . List of websites from the predefined websites that .wise has used to base the answer on. Custom Websearch & Summarise This feature works the same way as Websearch & Summarise but here, besides the predefined websites, you can add your own URLs. 1. Add the topic you want to make the search about. 2. Add your own URLs. 3. Start task.
The results you will get will look the same as the “Websearch&Summarize”; a summary of what you have looked for. Excel consultant When selecting Excel consultant, you will need to upload the excel document you want to extract information in, and add context to each column if wanted. Once you have added all the information you want, press start task.
• You can monitor the progress of each task in the ‘executed features’ tab. • After the task is completed, selecting it will display a plain chat where you can start asking questions about the excel.
Document Comparison When the clicking on the "Comparison of documents on a topic" feature: The system will open an independent chat to start with the comparison process . Enter the topic on which you want to evaluate the differences in the prompting area . The feature will provide in the chat the list of all files from My sources section. You will need to click on the documents you want to compare . At this point, the system extracts the information related to the topic indicated in each of the documents and composes a text indicating the differences between that information in the indicated documents. The result of the comparison will be accessible in Executed features tab , so that the user can access to it anytime. To execute a comparison based on a different topic or different documents it is needed to execute a new Document Comparison feature. Model selector
In the model selector next to each model, you will see how many tokens are left. If the model has 0 tokens, you cannot select and use it. The current available models are: • - mini. Optimized, lightweight version of the model . It provides quick and accurate responses while using fewer tokens, making it perfect for simple tasks like answering basic questions or creating short content. For more complex tasks, the full model is recommended. • . Ideal for handling complex tasks that demand thorough and detailed analysis. However, it could be slower pace requires a higher number of tokens. • DALL - E3. This model can generate images based on your prompt. When the DALL - E 3 model is selected, some functionalities are disabled as they are not compatible with image generation.
aXet.wise - Best practices • Select the most suitable model to your needs . For standard use, we recommend - mini , which provides high - quality responses while optimizing token usage. For more complex tasks requiring deeper analysis, consider using , as it delivers more comprehensive answers, though it may be slower and use more tokens. • Craft effective prompts • Be clear and specific: The more specific the prompt, the better the response. • Use Context: Provide context when necessary. Mention the role, goal, or problem you’re working on. For instance, “As a project manager...”. • Use the prompt wizard to refine your prompts automatically, helping you get better answers. • Iterate and refine • Ask Follow - Up Questions: If the response isn’t what you expected, ask follow - up questions or clarify your initial prompt. • Refine for Better Responses: Use feedback like, “That’s not what I was looking for; can you provide another example…?”. • Depending on the type of content you are inquiring about… • To perform generic questions (such as, what are the main stages in a project), do not select any source (from My sources, Company sources and My projects). • To perform specific questions based in the content contained in your sources, select the desired sources. Choose only the sources (from My sources, Company sources and My projects) relevant to your prompt to receive more accurate responses from the system. • Clear the conversation whenever a new context is introduced , such as selecting a different document or switching to an entirely new topic. • Language . If the system detects a supported language, the response will be in that language; otherwise, it will default to English. We recommend using English for
prompts, when possible, as the models typically provide higher - quality responses in this language. • Provide Context. • Instead of writing "brainstorming for marketing strategies," you could say: “We’re creating a marketing plan for a new tech product launch. I need innovative ideas to boost customer engagement and set us apart from competitors.”. • Experiment with Different Prompts. • Don’t limit yourself to one attempt. Try different approaches to get more accurate results. For example, instead of asking, "Explain cloud computing," you could try, "What are the benefits and challenges of using cloud computing?"
aXet.wise – FAQs How to access .wise? To access aXet.wise ( https://wise.axet.emeal.nttdata.com/ ) you will need to be registered in aXet platform with a project code. What can I use aXet.wise for? aXet.wise integrates GenerativeAI capacities such as question answering, summarization, and the generation of text and images, among others. The key advantage is that aXet.wise can answer both general questions, without relying on your specific context, and personalized questions based on your sources (items in My Sources and My Projects) as well as the company’s information (Company sources). What is considered improper use of the asset? What consequences might be? aXet.wise is designed as a question - and - answer - based asset; attempts at mass generation or the use of "prompt injection" techniques will be considered misuse and may result in the temporary or permanent deactivation of the offending user. What kind of information must not be upload to aXet.wise? You must not share, disclose or upload content to aXet that may be considered: Customer information without first receiving appropriate permissions from the customer and your account leadership team, as applicable, and in accordance with customer contracts and requirements. Special categories of personal data. How do I know the model I need to use?
There are currently three models available. Depending on the type of task, it is recommended to use one or the other. - mini: optimized, lightweight version of the model, recommended for simple tasks. : Recommended for complex tasks that require in - depth analysis, may be slower. DALL - E: for image creation only. Please be aware that each model has a specific number of tokens available, which you can view in the model selector. How can I include my project documentation in .wise (My projects section)? You can include your preferred libraries from a SharePoint site into .wise . This allows you to have your project documentation from SharePoint and use it as context in your prompts. You just need to create a new project and fill in the required information: - Project name - URL of the Site . The URL of the site looks like this: https://everisgroup.sharepoint.com/sites/sitename/ (where site name is the name of your SharePoint site). - Libraries You will also need to log in to your Microsoft account, from the Log in to Microsoft button that appears (your SharePoint permissions need to be verified). How much time a project from My projects lasts? Each of the project last indefinitely. How are permissions managed in My projects? The user's permissions on each document are considered. It is checked at the time of the AI response. The AI will only respond to documents to which the user has access. If the user asks a question and the answer is contained in documents to which the user has no access, the system will not provide that information. How can I share a project?
You can share the project when it is created or at any moment with the Edit option. You can indicate individual emails of attach a CSV (recommended if you are going to share the project with multiple users). Notice that the email must be the long email + @nttdata.com What happens if a remove a project created by me or shared with me? The removed project will no longer appear to you in My Projects section. This change will not affect other users; they will still see the project until they remove it by themselves. How do I create an image? To generate an image, first select the DALL - E model, as it is the only model capable of creating images. Then, enter a detailed prompt describing the desired characteristics. The generated image will appear in the chat with a download button. Please note t hat it’s not possible to modify an existing image or ask questions about it; to make changes, simply create a new prompt to generate a new image. How is security ensured in aXet.wise? The information provided by you (in My Sources, My Projects, and your prompts) is not shared with other users, or customers. In My Projects section, permission management is fully handled by SharePoint. When using Q&A, only the documents you have access to will be used to generate answers. Is aXet.wise multilangue? We are working on adding more languages to aXet.wise , which you will be able to select from the language menu in the user settings. Currently, only English is available, so the
application interface will appear in English. However, the system will respond in the language of your prompt or request whenever possible. How can I share feedback? In the user menu, you’ll find a direct link to a feedback survey where you can share any comments or suggestions. We’ll be happy to hear from you and work on improving the application. You can also write us at axet.wise@emeal.nttdata.com . How can I manage any question or incidence? If you have any questions, issues, or suggestions, you can get in touch with the aXet.wise team through axet.wise@emeal.nttdata.com Can I upload an image to wise? Yes, you can upload images in My sources (.png and .jpg formats are allowed). aXet.wise will process the text contained on the image. However, if there is a chart, flow or any other element in the image that is not text, this information will not be processed. To process this information, OCR capacities are needed ( Optical Character Recognition, is a technology that converts different types of documents, such as scanned paper documents, PDFs, or images taken by a digital camera, into editable and searchable data). We are already working on incorporating this capacity .
