aXet.plugin: Streamline the use of generative  AI in our daily services  Use   .plugin   as a complement in the most used development IDEs.  Currently available for   Visual Studio Code, Microsoft VS Professional,   Eclipse   and IntelliJ .  aXet.plugin   –   Installation  You can install   aXet.plugin   in your development IDE as a complement. Currently, it is  available for   Visual Studio Code,   Microsoft VS Professional,   Eclipse and IntelliJ .  Development for other IDEs is in progress, stay tuned for upcoming releases.  Important: Your user must have access to a project in aXet in order to use the .plugin.  Install aXet.plugin in VS Code  Before starting the procedure, you need to download the   .plugin   installer. Here is a  direct   link   to the latest version.  The   minimum required version   of VS Code to be able to install .plugin is   1.8 4 . 0  If you already have the .vsix   file, these are the steps to install it in VS Code.  1.   Open Visual Studio Code.  2.   Click on   ‘Manage’   button and select   ‘Extensions’   from the menu.  3.   Click on the three dots to display the context menu and select the option   ‘Install  from VSIX …’ .
4.   Select the file you have downloaded and that is the installer for   .plugin .  5.   Wait a few seconds and you will see that a new extension has been installed and is  ready to use.  •   On   'Details'   tab, you can see general information about   aXet.plugin , such as  installation data, main features, use cases, advanced configuration, practical  examples...  •   On   'Features'   tab, you can see information related to the configuration of  aXet.plugin .
•   On   'Changelog'   tab, you can see the features and improvements of the published  versions of   aXet.plugin .  Install aXet.plugin in Eclipse  Before starting the procedure, you need to download the   .plugin   installer. Here is a  direct   link   to the latest version.  The   minimum required version   of Eclipse to be able to install .plugin is   2021 - 03 (4.19)  If you already have the .zip file, these are the steps to install it in Eclipse.  1.   Unzip the .zip file.  2.   Open Eclipse.  3.   Click on   ‘Help’   menu and select   ‘Install New Software’   item.  4.   Click on   ‘Add’   button to select the   .plugin   installer.
5.   In the new window that opens to select the repository where the   installer is located,  you must select   ‘Local…’ .  6.   Select the folder you unzipped in step 1 and click on   ‘Add’   button.  7.   Check   ‘AI Assistants’   and click on   ‘Next’   button.
8.   Select   ‘AxetEclipsePlugin’   and click on   ‘Finish’   button.
Once   aXet.plugin   is   installed, you will get a notification to restart Eclipse to apply the  update. Click   ‘Restart Now’ , and just wait for Eclipse to reopen.  Install aXet.plugin in Microsoft VS  Before starting the procedure, you need to download the   .plugin   installer. Here is a  direct   link   to the latest version.  The   minimum required version   of Microsoft VS Professional to be able to  install .plugin is   2022 17.1 3 .  Before installing   aXet.plugin , you must ensure that the following individual components  are installed in Microsoft Visual Studio Professional:  •   Visual Studio SDK.  •   .NET Framework 4.8.
•   .NET SDK.  These are the steps you must follow to install them in case   you haven't done so previously.  1.   Open Visual Studio Installer and select   ‘Modify ’.  2.   Select   ‘Individual components’   tab and make sure that   Visual Studio SDK ,   .NET  Framework 4.8   and   .NET SDK   are checked.  3.   Click   ‘Modify’   if any of the individual components needs to be installed.  You are ready to install   aXet.plugin .  If you already have the .vsix file, these are the steps to install it in Microsoft Visual Studio  Professional.  1.   Double click on .vsix file and click on   ‘Install’   button.  2.   After updating configuration for Microsoft Visual Studio Professional during  installation you must restart the application.
3.   You can find   aXet.plugin   available.  Install aXet.plugin in IntelliJ  Before starting the procedure, you need to download the   .plugin   installer. Here is a  direct   link   to the latest version.  The   minimum required version   of IntelliJ IDEA to be able to install .plugin is   2023.1.0.  If you already have the .jar file,   these are the steps to install it in IntelliJ.  1.   Open IntelliJ and the project you're working on.  2.   Click on   ‘File’   menu and select   ‘Settings’ .
3.   Click on   ‘Plugins’   and in the   ‘Settings’   menu select   ‘Install Plugin from Disk…’ .
4.   Select the   .jar   file you have downloaded previously and click on   ‘Accept’   in the  window that opens regarding Third - Party plugins.  5.   You must restart IntelliJ and you can find   aXet.plugin   available.
aXet.plugin   -   Using it  You have already installed   .plugin   and are ready to   start using it. Select your development  IDE to learn more about how to use it.  Use aXet.plugin in VS Code  Before starting to use the   plugin   in VS Code, you must log into   aXet .  Remember that you must have an active user to use it.  These are the steps   you must follow:  1.   Click on   ‘ Login into aXet Platform ’   button in the bottom right corner.  2.   A window from Okta opens in the browser with an activation code. Click on  the   ‘Next’   button.
If you are logged into Okta, return to the VS Code interface to   continue with the login  process.  If you are not logged into Okta, you must follow the steps to do it before continuing with the  login in VS Code.  3.   Return to VS Code   and click con   ‘Check D evice approved’   to go on with login  process .  4.   You are now logged in and can continue with the configuration of   aXet.plugin .   Click  on   ‘Settings’   button.
5.   First,   select the project you are going to work on.  6.   Then, select   the default AI model you are going to use. You can   change it later.  7.   You can provide additional instructions to your prompts to customize the responses  of   .plugin   using the   'Custom Instructions'   parameter.  8.   You can use different AI models in   plan mode   and   act mode . In the next section,  you will see the difference between these two modes of work of   .plugin .  9.   You can setup   ‘Browser settings’   to select   ‘ V iewport size’   and   e nable aXet to use  Chrome   if   it is working   in debug mode.  10.   You can also access the   ‘ A dvanced   S ettings ’ .
You can setup:  1.   Axet:   Chrome Executable Path .   Path to Chrome executable for browser use  functionality. If not set, the extension will attempt to find or download it  automatically.  2.   Axet:   Disable Browser Tool .   Enables/Disables extension from spaw n ing  browser session.  3.   Axet:   Enable Checkpoints .   Enables/Disables extension to   s ave checkpoints  of workspace   throughout   the task.  4.   Axet › Model Settings › O3 Mini:   Reasoning Effort .   Controls the reasoning  effort when using the o3 - mini model. Higher values may result in more  thorough but slower responses.   Select from the dropdown: low, medium,  high.  5.   Axet:   Preferred Language .   The language that   aX et should use for  communication.   Select the language from the dropdown.  6.   Axet:   Vs Code Lm Model Selector .   Settings for VSCode Language Model  API . Edit in settings.json.  Let's review the VS Code interface when you're ready to work with   .plugin .
These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   aXet.plugin shortcut .   When the   extension has been installed correctly and you are  logged into   aXet   platform, you can select the shortcut has been created to open the  chat and start asking questions to   aXet.  2.   aXet.plugin   history .   Access the history of queries   done . Once in the history   list , you  can filter, sort,   review   and delete queries.  3.   Open chat   in the editor .  4.   Access user configuration .   You can logout from here.  5.   aXet.plugin settings . Access aXet.plugin configuration.  6.   Auto - approve .   Every time   . plugin needs to access and/or modify any file in the  software project you are working on, it will ask for your permission. You can enable  this check and give access to   . plugin to all files by selecting the following options:  read permission, edit permission, permission to execute commands in the  terminal, permission to use the browser. You can also enable notifications from  aXet every time it requests access to any file o r when a task is completed.  7.   aXet.plugin chat .   Ask an open question and get the answer from   aXet.  8.   Add context .   Provide context to your r equest. This context can be:   a   URL to fetch  contents ,   Git Commits, some files or some folders from your   software deve lopment  project.
9.   Add image s .   Provide context to your r equest   by adding some image files.  10.   Select AI Model / API Provider .   You can   change the A I model   every time you need  it .  11.   Plan mode .   When you request aXet.plugin to execute tasks, selec t plan mode and   it  will   provide a course of action for you to decide what you want to do next.  12.   Act mode .   When you request aXet.plugin to execute tasks, select   act   mode   and it  will   automatically makes the necessary changes. It   will   not only modif y   or create  files but also execute commands in the console, install necessary packages, ...  Use chat in VS Code  Once   aXet.plugin   has been installed and you are logged into   aXet   platform, you can start  asking questions to   aXet   using the free chat   even if you are not working on a   project .  The   aXet.plugin   version for VS Code is an autonomous   agentic   assistant specialized in  code generation and performing complex development tasks.  It is capable of planning, reasoning, and executing multi - step actions on its own.  When you request   aXet.plugin   to execute tasks, it has two operating modes:  •   Plan mode, in which it provides a course of action for you to de cide what you want  to do next.  •   Act mode, in which it automatically makes the necessary changes. It not only  modifies or creates files but also executes commands in the console, installs  necessary packages, ...  Just like a real team member, you can see how tasks are executed in real time.  You can ask .plugin to analyze the structure of the project. Type your question   ‘ How is this  project structured? ’   in the chat .

aXet.plugin goes through all the project files to analyze them and provide an answer.  You can also ask aXet about the file you have open.  Click on ‘New   Task’ ,   a sk   .plugin   to   perform a new ta sk; e.g.   refactor the code to make it  more efficient   and safer   and change to act mode .  If   .plugin   needs access to any folder or file, it   will   request it.

Once   this task   is finished,   you   can see the original file and in parallel the suggested  changes.  The next step is to review the changes provided by aXet. At this point,   you   can click   'Save'  to accept the changes and the file will be automatically modified or   you   can click   'Reject'   to  reject them and continue working.  If still have any doubts   or other tasks must be executed , can   keep on   asking questions on  the same topic and   aXet   will provide the help need ed .  Use aXet.plugin in Eclipse  Before starting to use the   plugin   in Eclipse, you must log into   aXet .  Remember that you must have an   active user to use it.  These are the steps you must follow:  1.   Click on   ‘aXet’   menu in the toolbar and select   ‘aXet Login’   item.
2.   A window from Okta opens in the browser with an activation code.   Click on  the   ‘Next’   button.  If you are logged into Okta, return to Eclipse to continue with the login process.  If you are not logged into Okta, you must follow the steps to do it before continuing with the  login in Eclipse.  3.   Return to Eclipse to select the project you are going to work on.
4.   Select the AI model   you want to use. You can change it later.  5.  6.   The first time you access .plugin you must accept the terms of use. On the aXet.gaia  page, you can read and accept these terms of use. Until you accept them, you will  not be able to start using it.  7.   Return to the IDE to start working with aXet in Eclipse.
Before starting to use the .plugin, let's look at the available options in ‘aXet’ menu.  •   aXet Logout.   It allows you to logout in   aXet   platform.  •   Resync.   Force the synchronization of the .plugin with the   aXet   platform, this  includes projects, users, groups ...  •   Change project account.   It allows you to switch projects. If you are registered in  multiple projects, you can select which one you are going to work on.  •   Disable code minings . It allows you to enable and disable the use of code minings  (CodeLense).  •   Change language.   By default,   aXet   messages will be displayed in the same  language that is set in Eclipse, but clicking this button allows you to change it.  •   Terms and Conditions .   It allows you to revisit to consult the terms of use and  privacy that you have accepted to start using the extension.  You will also see a notification if   aXet.gai a is under maintenance or if there are scheduled  maintenance actions.   The scheduled maintenance notifications from   aXet   include  information on the date, time, and time zone.  Click on the icon with the name of the project you are working on, and a window will show  you information about the project and the selected AI model.
Let's review the Eclipse interface when you're ready to work with   .plugin .  These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   aXet.plugin shortcut.   When the plugin has been successfully installed in Eclipse,  you can find the shortcut in the toolbar.  2.   aXet.plugin chat.   Ask an open question and get the answer from   aXet .   You can use  collections of documents to provide the context to create a more relevant,  accurate, and tailored responses.   You can also see information about the tokens  used in queries to manage resource usage efficiently.  3.   aXet.plugin CodeLens.   When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are  logged into   aXet   platform, you can use CodeLens with predefined and appropriate  actions on each of the methods, classes, and functions in Java files.   You can use  collections of documents to provide the context to create a more relevant,  accurate, and tailored responses.  You have two ways to interact with   .plugin   to ask questions to   aXet . You can ask free  questions using the chat or you can use CodeLens with predefined and appropriate
actions on each of the methods, classes, and functions only in Java files. Let's see how to  use each of these two ways.  Use chat in Eclipse  When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are logged into   aXet   platform, you  can start   asking questions to   aXet   using the free chat   even if you are not working on a  project.  Ask an open question and get the answer from   aXet .   If the   aXet.gaia   project you have  connected to has collections set up, whether public for all project users or private because
you created them, you will be able to use them here to provide context to your questions.  To do this, you must click the   ' Attach ’ '   button and check the ones you want to use.  Select the AI model from the available ones.  You can add the file that is open in the IDE to provide context to the conversation you are  going to start in the chat. The checkbox   ‘Include current file context’   allows you to  select/deselect.  You can also see information about the tokens used in queries to manage resource usage  efficiently.  You can find 2 buttons in the explanation.
With the first button, you can copy and paste the displayed information.  With the second button, you can directly add the information to the file you are working  with.  If you still have any doubts, you can continue asking questions on the same topic  and   aXet   will provide you with the help you need.
Click on the trash can icon if you want to   clear the chat content and you will be able to start  a new conversation with   aXet .  The next time you open VS Code and access the aXet extension, you will see the  history of all the questions you have asked.  Use CodeLens in Eclipse  When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are logged into   aXet   platform, you  can use CodeLens with predefined and appropriate actions on each of the methods,  classes, and functions in Java files.
Before opening your Java project, make sure that CodeLens is available for use in Eclipse.  These are the steps to follow:  1.   Open the   ‘Window’   menu and select   ‘Preferences’ .  2.   In the   ‘Java’   section, select   ‘Editor’   and click on   ‘Code Minings’ .  3.   Make sure that the following checks are marked.  Now, you are ready to open up a   Java project, and you’ll see the CodeLens options within  the code.
If not all actions can be displayed, the ‘ More…’   option is available. Click on it and you will  see the rest of the available actions.  Let’s ask   .plugin   to inspect the code using the   ‘Bug finder’   option.  Depending on the task, you will need to provide more information for   aXet   to execute it.  You can use collections of documents to provide context to your request selecting from  the list. Check the ones you want to use, could be public for all the users of the project or  your private ones.  This collections of documents must be create and manage in   aXet.gaia .  You will get the answer from   aXet .
.plugin   provides a natural language explanation of the issues in this code and how to fix  them.
Regarding the explanation:  •   You can copy and paste the displayed information.  •   You can directly add the information to the file you are working with.  The next time you open VS Code and access the aXet extension, you will see the  history of all the questions you have asked.  Use aXet.plugin in Microsoft VS  Before starting to use the   plugin   in Microsoft Visual Studio Professional, you must log  into   aXet .  Remember that you must have an active user to use it.  These are the steps you must follow:  1.   Click on   aXet menu and select   ‘Login’   item.  2.   A window from Okta opens in the browser with an activation code.   Click on  the   ‘Next’   button.
If you are logged into Okta, return to the Microsoft Visual Studio Professional interface to  continue with the login   process.  If you are not logged into Okta, you must follow the steps to do it before continuing with the  login in Microsoft Visual Studio Professional.  3.   Return to Microsoft Visual Studio Professional to select the project you are going to  work on.  4.   Select one AI model. You can change it later on in case you need it.  5.   You are logged in successfully.  Before starting to use the extension, let's look at the available options by clicking on  the   ‘aXet’   menu.  •   Logout.   It allows you to logout in   aXet   platform.  •   Resync.   Force the synchronization of the extension with the   aXet   platform, this  includes projects, users, groups ...
•   Change project.   It allows you to switch projects. If you are registered in multiple  projects, you can select which one you are going to work on.  •   Axet Terms and Conditions.   It allows you to revisit to consult the terms of use and  privacy that you have accepted to start using the extension.  •   Change Language : By default,   aXet.plugin   chat messages will be displayed in the  same language that is set in Microsoft Visual Studio Professional. It allows you to  select the language in which   aXet.plugin   chat will respond and CodeLens will be  displayed.  •   Toggle codelenses . It allows manage CodeLens.  •   aXet chat . It allows you:  o   Open Chat . It opens the chat panel to ask an open question and get the  answer from   aXet .  o   Change Theme . It allows you to change the theme of the chat panel.  o   Clear Chat . It deletes the prompts and responses in the chat panel.  You will also see a notification if   aXet.gaia   is under maintenance or if there are scheduled  maintenance actions.   The scheduled maintenance notifications from   aXet   include  information on the date, time, and time zone.  Let's review the Microsoft Visual Studio Professional interface when you're ready to work  with   .plugin .
These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   aXet menu.   After installing the extension, from this menu you can configure and  operate with   aXet.plugin .  2.   aXet.plugin chat.   This is the chat to ask open questions to   aXet.plugin . You can  use   collections of documents to provide the context to create a more relevant,  accurate, and tailored responses.  3.   aXet.plugin CodeLens.   When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are  logged into   aXet   platform, you can use CodeLens with predefined and appropriate  actions on each of the methods, classes, and functions in .NET projects files. You  can use collections of documents to provide the context to create a more relevant,  accurate, and tailored resp onses.  You have two ways to interact with   .plugin   to ask questions to   aXet . You can ask free  questions using the chat or you can use CodeLens with predefined and appropriate  actions on each of the methods, classes, and functions in your coding files. Let's see how  to use each of these two ways.  Document collections are created and managed in aXet.gaia.  Use chat in Microsoft VS  When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are logged into   aXet   platform, you  can start asking questions to   aXet   using the free chat   even if you are not working on a  project .  Ask an open question and get the answer from   aXet . If the   aXet.gaia   project you have  connected to has collections set up, whether public for all project users or private because  you created them, you will be able to use them here to provide   context to your questions.  To do this, you must click the   ' Attach '   button and check the ones you want to use.
You can find 2 buttons in the explanation.  With the first button, you can copy and paste the displayed information.  With the second button, you can directly add the information to the file you are working  with.   If there is a code selection in the editor, you can overwrite that selection with the chat  content. If there is no selection, it will be concatenated at the position where the cursor is  located.  If you still have any doubts, you can continue asking questions on the same topic  and   aXet   will provide you with the help you need .  The next time you open Microsoft Visual Studio Professional and access the aXet  extension, you will see the   history of all the questions you have asked.  Use CodeLens in Microsoft VS
When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are logged into   aXet   platform, you  can use CodeLens with predefined and appropriate actions on each of the methods,  classes, and functions in .NET projects files.  Open your development project and check that you have suggestions from   aXet.  Click on   ‘aXet Plugin’   and select the option you are interested in as you can see in the  image below.  Let’s ask   .plugin   to inspect the   code using the   ‘Bug finder’   option. Depending on the task,  you will need to provide more information for   aXet   to execute it.  You can use collections of documents to provide context to your request selecting from  the list. Check the ones you want to use, could be public for all the users of the project or  your private ones.  This collections of documents must be create and manage in   aXet.gaia .
You will get the answer from   aXet .  .plugin   provides a natural language explanation of the issues in this code   and how to fix  them.  Regarding the explanation:  •   You can copy and paste the displayed information.  •   You can directly add the information to the file you are working with.
The next time you open Microsoft Visual Studio Professional and access the aXet  extension, you will see the history of all the questions you have asked.  Use aXet.plugin in IntelliJ  Before starting to use the   plugin   in IntelliJ, you must log into   aXet .  Remember that you must have an active user to use it.  These are the steps you must follow:  1.   Click on   aXet   menu and select   ‘Login’   item.  2.   A window from Okta opens in the browser with an activation code.   Click on  the   ‘Next’   button.  If you are logged into Okta, return to the IntelliJ interface to continue with the login process.  If   you are not logged into Okta, you must follow the steps to do it before continuing with the  login in IntelliJ.  3.   Return to IntelliJ to select the   aXet   project you are going to work on.
If you are registered in more than one project on   aXet.gaia , you will be able to select which  one you are going to work on.  If you are registered in only one, it is not necessary to select it.  4.   Select one AI model. You can change it later on in case you need it.  5.   You are logged in successfully.  Before starting to use the   extension, let's look at the available options by clicking on  the   ‘aXet’   menu.  •   Logout.   It allows you to logout in   aXet   platform.  •   Resync.   Force the synchronization of the extension with the   aXet   platform, this  includes projects, users, groups …  •   Change project account.   It allows you to switch projects. If you are registered in  multiple projects, you can select which one you are going to work on.  •   Disable inlay hints . It allows enable/disable inlay hints.  •   Change Language : By default,   aXet.plugin   chat messages will be displayed in  english. It allows you to select the language in which   aXet.plugin   chat will respond  and inlay hints will be displayed.
•   Terms of use and Private Notice.   It allows you to revisit to consult the terms of use  and privacy that you have accepted to start using the extension.  You will also see a notification if   aXet.gaia   is under maintenance or if there are scheduled  maintenance actions.   The scheduled maintenance notifications from   aXet   include  information on the date, time, and time zone.  Let's review the IntelliJ interface when you're ready to work with   .plugin .  These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   aXet menu.   After installing the extension, from this menu you can configure and  operate with   aXet.plugin .  2.   aXet.plugin chat.   This is   the chat to ask open questions to   aXet.plugin . You can  use collections of documents to provide the context to create a more relevant,  accurate, and tailored responses.   Y ou can also see information about the tokens  used in queries to manage resource usage efficiently.  3.   aXet.plugin inlay hints   When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are  logged into   aXet   platform, you can use inlay hints with predefined and appropriate  actions on each of the methods, classes, and functions. You can use collections of  documents to provide the context to create a more relevant, accurate, and tailored  responses.  You have two ways to interact with   .plugin   to ask questions to   aXet . You can ask free  questions using the chat or you can use inlay hints with predefined and appropriate
actions on each of the methods, classes, and functions in your coding files. Let's see how  to use each of these two ways.  Document collections are created and managed in aXet.gaia.  Use chat in IntelliJ  When the   .plugin   has been   installed correctly and you are logged into   aXet   platform, you  can start asking questions to   aXet   using the free chat.  Ask an open question and get the answer from   aXet . If the   aXet.gaia   project you have  connected to has collections set up, whether public for all project users or private because
you created them, you will be able to use them here to provide context to your questions.  To do this, you must click the   ' Attach '   button and check the ones you want to use.  Select the AI model from the available ones.  You can add the file that is open in the IDE to provide context to the conversation you are  going to start in the chat. The checkbox   ‘Include current file context’   allows you to  select/deselect.  You can also see information about the tokens used in queries to manage resource usage  efficiently.  You can find 2 buttons in the explanation.
With the first button, you can copy and paste the displayed information.  With the second   button, you can directly add the information to the file you are working  with.  If you still have any doubts, you can continue asking questions on the same topic  and   aXet   will provide you with the help you need.
Click on the trash can icon if you want to clear the chat content and you will be able to start  a new conversation with   aXet .  The next time you open IntelliJ and access the aXet extension, you will see the history  of all the questions you have asked.  Use Inlay Hints in IntelliJ
When the   .plugin   has been installed correctly and you are logged into   aXet   platform, you  can use inlay hints with predefined and appropriate actions on each of the methods,  classes, and functions in your coding files.  Open your development project and check that you have suggestions from   aXet.  Select the task you want to perform and   aXet   will execute it. For example, let's ask to  ‘ Code Explanation’ . Depending on the task, you will need to provide more information  for   aXet   to execute it.  You can use collections of   documents to provide context to your request selecting from  the list. Check the ones you want to use, could be public for all the users of the project or  your private ones.  This collections of documents must be create and manage in   aXet.gaia .
You will get the answer from   aXet .  .plugin   provides a natural language explanation of the code.  Regarding the explanation:
•   You can copy and paste the displayed information.  •   You can directly add the information to the file you are working with.  The next time you   open IntelliJ and access the aXet extension, you will see the history  of all the questions you have asked.
aXet.plugin   -   Best practices  •   Keep the   .plugin   version updated to get all available functionality and  improvements.   This will save you time in development.  When a new version of   .plugin   is available, you will see an informational notice in  the IDE so you can update it.  Follow the   link   to find the latest version of   aXet.plugin .  •   Choosing the right IDE and using the appropriate extension, such as   .plugin , brings  important benefits such as facilitating maintenance, scalability, documentation,  testing, and the localization and resolution of errors in the code.  Nearly Decalogue of the Ideal User of AI for Developers  1.   Support Your Development : Use   .plugin   to complement your work, such as  generating code examples or   suggestions, but always review and understand what  it generates before integrating it into your project.  2.   Formulate Clear Problems : Pose problems and requirements clearly and in detail.  Provide context about the programming language, development environment, and  specific objectives.  3.   Iterate and Refine : If the first response is not perfect, do not hesitate to ask follow -  up questions or request improvements.   .plugin   can help you iterate on solutions  until they meet your needs.  4.   Verify and Test the Code : Consider the generated code as a starting point. Always  review, debug, and test any fragment thoroughly before using it in production.  5.   Promote Good Practices : Request and follow recommendations on design  patterns, SOLID principles, and other good programming practices. Use the AI to  maintain clean and sustainable code.  6.   Document Clearly : Use   .plugin   to generate or improve code documentation.  Ensure that explanations are clear and understandable both for you and other  developers.  7.   Optimize Performance : Request suggestions to improve your code's performance  or to identify potential bottlenecks.   .plugin   can help you consider alternative  approaches or optimization techniques.
aXet.plugin   –   FAQs  What is considered improper use of the asset? What consequences might  there be?  aXet. plugin   is designed as a question - and - answer - based asset; attempts at mass  generation or the use of "prompt injection" techniques will be considered misuse and may  result in the temporary or permanent deactivation of the offending user.  Is integration with other LLM models being considered?  The asset's architecture allows us to consider integration with other Large Language  Models (LLMs), although we currently work with OpenAI models using the authenticated  API from Coding by NTT DATA.  How can I request the inclusion of new groups of questions in the tree?  For users in EMEAL, this is the   link   to open a ticket requesting an improvement.  For users at INC., we will soon provide a procedure.
aXet.plugin   –   Glossary  This is a glossary of relevant terms:  •   Generative AI  Generative Artificial Intelligence is a field of Artificial Intelligence that encompasses  systems and   algorithms capable of generating new, original, and creative content.  This type of AI learns from enormous datasets and generates new similar content  (text, images, music, and other types of data). It falls within a specific type of  Machine Learning known   as Deep Learning, which is based on the use of deep  neural networks. These networks are configured in various architectures, such as  Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) or diffusion models based on  Transformers.  •   Machine Learning  Machine Learning is a branch of computer science that aims to enable computers  to perform tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so. These are models  that can gradually improve their accuracy based on the data provided. Its most  basic application   is the practice of using algorithms to process data, learn from it,  and then be able to make a prediction or suggestion about something. It comprises  three categories of learning: supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning.  •   Supervised Learning  Supervised Learning is a type of learning in Machine Learning models that relies on  labeled data and has high accuracy and easily interpretable results, which is why it  is widely used in industry. Its main drawback is that it requires data to be previously  labeled (which can be costly or unfeasible in many cases).  •   Unsupervised Learning  Unsupervised Learning is a type of learning in ML models that uses unlabeled data  and, unlike Supervised Learning models, can detect hidden patterns in the data  without human intervention. This includes clustering algorithms, for example, to  group customer s into segments and detect similar behaviors.  •   Reinforcement Learning  Reinforcement Learning is a type of learning in ML models where the machine is  guided to learn from the repetition of actions and associated rewards. The agent,  representing the machine, takes actions in an environment and receives rewards  when correct dec isions are made. Over time, the agent learns to choose the correct
actions to maximize its reward. Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback is  the technique behind large language models like ChatGPT.  •   Neural Networks  Neural networks are a type of computational model that teaches machines to  process data in a way inspired by the human brain. It consists of a set of units,  called artificial neurons, connected to transmit signals. The input information  passes through the   neural network (where it undergoes various operations),  producing output values.  •   Deep Learning  Deep Learning is a type of Machine Learning that uses complex neural networks  with three or more layers. These neural networks attempt to emulate the behavior of  the human brain — though far from matching its capacity — but allow it to "learn"  from large amoun ts of data. While a single - layer neural network can make  approximate predictions, additional hidden layers add complexity to the model and  help optimize its accuracy.  •   GAN  Generative Adversarial Networks, or GANs, are a method based on training two  neural networks, one called the generator and the other the discriminator, which  compete with each other to generate new instances that resemble the training data  distribution.  •   LM and LLM   –   Large Language Models  Language models (LM) are machine learning models that predict the next word in a  sentence, considering the context of previous words. They are based on a  probabilistic description of language phenomena. A colossal language model or  LLM, also called a large   language model, is a language model consisting of a neural  network with many parameters, trained on large amounts of unlabeled text through  self - supervised or semi - supervised learning. These models can be used in a wide  range of natural language processing tasks, such as text creation, document  summarization, or language translation.  •   NLP  Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a field within artificial intelligence and applied  linguistics that studies interactions using natural language between humans and  machines. It focuses on processing human communications, breaking them into  parts, and i dentifying the most relevant elements of the message. With Natural
Language Understanding and Generation, it aims for machines to understand,  interpret, and manipulate human language.  •   Open AI  Open AI is an artificial intelligence (AI) research lab founded in 2015 that operates  with the declared intention of promoting and developing friendly and democratized  AI. OpenAI systems run on a supercomputing platform based on Microsoft's Azure,  and some   of its best - known works are generative AIs like ChatGPT (the leading  conversational AI) or DALL·E (the AI for generating images from natural language).  •   Chat - GPT  Chat GPT is a language model developed by OpenAI that employs natural language  processing (NLP) techniques to generate coherent and natural responses in real -  time. Its free version uses the   GPT - 3.5 model, and the most current version is GPT -  4.  •   Fine - Tuning  Fine - Tuning is a training technique that involves reusing predefined and pre - trained  neural network architectures. It is a process where a "fine - tuning" of some layers of  the network is performed to obtain the desired outputs. In other words, certain  repre sentations of the pre - trained model are slightly adjusted to make it more  relevant to the problem to be solved.   This avoids training the network from scratch.  •   Prompts  A "prompt" in AI refers to an instruction or request that a user makes to an LLM,  chatbot, or AI model. This instruction can come not only in natural language (text or  audio) but also in other formats like images or code. The careful and concise  preparatio n of these instructions is known as "prompting," and it ultimately aims to  obtain the desired results or responses from LLMs or generative models of images  and videos.  •   Token  In the context of large language models or LLMs, a token is a basic unit of  information for text processing. These tokens generally correspond to words or  phrases, but they can also be punctuation marks or numbers. Transforming text  into chains of tokens a llows LLMs to process user prompts and generate  corresponding responses. A model like GPT - 3.5 could handle 4,096 tokens or  around 8,000 words. The number of tokens processed in an input grows as more  complex LLMs are trained.
•   Transformer  It is a neural network architecture that has served as the basis for deep learning  models used in modern generative AI models. Transformers specialize in  processing sequential information, such as natural language, and for this, they  employ the self - attent ion mechanism, where different weights are given to each  part of the input. These models take a sentence in the form of a sequence of  vectors, convert it into an encoded vector, which is then decoded into an output  sequence. This architecture w as proposed by a group of Google researchers in  2017, in the seminal paper "Attention is all you need."  •   RAG  Retrieval - Augmented Generation (RAG) is a methodology to optimize LLMs so that  they take into account a reference knowledge base when generating responses.  This way, with RAG, we augment LLMs' capabilities with internal or specific  information that has bee n trained with large volumes of generic data.
