aXet.talk: Your expert functional assistant  Upload project documentation and interact with the tool as an expert assistant.  It is part of the   aXet   platform.  aXet.talk   -   First steps  Adoption Process Guide for   .talk  Follow these steps to successfully adopt and implement   .talk   for your project:  1.   Identify an opportunity .  Pinpoint an area where   .talk   can enhance team performance by utilizing their  expertise and knowledge to support the project.  2.   Begin with a Small Proof of Concept (POC).  Collaborate with the implementation team to run a   POC . This will allow you to:  •   Evaluate   .talk ’s potential.  •   Configure the system according to the project’s needs.  •   Ensure smooth deployment for optimal results.  3.   Assign a Moderator  Designate a team member as a   moderator . Their role will include:  •   Uploading relevant project documents to the platform.  •   Training the Assistant on specific content related to the project.  4.   Ready for Use!  Once the assistant is trained and the setup is complete, your project is ready to  leverage   .talk   for enhanced performance and results!  Asset access  After approbation of the PoC and all aligned with the Manager, the application  of   aXet.talk   will be deployed and ready to use.  The first step is to log into Okta. These are the steps to follow:
1.   Access   aXet.talk   web interface.  2.   Log in to Okta platform. You can mark the   ‘Keep me signed in’   check.  3.   Select the option to verify your credentials.
4.   Once logged into Okta, you can now access   aXet.talk   to start working with it.
aXet.talk   –   Interface  Here you can see the home page of   .talk .  Where you will initially have two options for interacting with   .talk .  •   New Chat With Repository .   By clicking on the   New Chat With Repository   option,  you can specify which file s   will be used as parameters.  1.   N ew   C onversation.   Starts a new conversation or session with the AI  assistant. It likely resets the context, allowing the user to ask questions or  interact without the influence of previous conversations .
2.   History .   Displays a list of recent queries or conversations with the assistant.  It allows users to revisit and reuse previous questions or interactions.  3.   Suggested Questions . In this section, you can find questions suggested by  the assistant. Click on one to start chatting with   .talk .  4.   Text input field .   This is where users type their queries or messages to the  assistant. It collects user input and sends it for processing when the user  presses   ‘Send   Message ’ .  5.   Send Message.   Submits the query or message typed in the input field to the  assistant for processing and response generation.  6.   Manage Documents .   This might allow users to upload, manage, or delete  documents that the AI assistant can reference during the conversation. It  could involve document storage or retrieval functionalities.  •   New   Chat with   D ocument . This feature enables users to ask questions about a  specific uploaded document.   aXet.talk   generates responses based on its  understanding of the document's content. This is particularly useful for lengthy  documents.  1.   N ew   Chat With Document .   Starts a new conversation or session with the AI  assistant. It likely resets the context, allowing the user to ask questions or  interact without the influence of previous conversations .
2.   Assistant Language .   Allows selecting a language from the dropdown with  which   aXet.talk   will communicate with the user.  3.   Upload your document.   Allows upload the document that the user wants to  ask questions about.  4.   History .   Displays a list of recent queries or conversations with the assistant.  It allows users to revisit and reuse previous questions or interactions.  5.   Suggested Questions . In this section, you can find questions suggested by  the assistant. Click on one to start chatting with   .talk .  6.   Text input field .   This is where users type their queries or messages to the  assistant. It collects user input and sends it for processing when the user  presses   ‘Send   Message ’ .  7.   Send Message.   Submits the query or message typed in the input field to the  assistant for processing and response generation.  Administrator . This menu allows you to access the configuration options of   aXet.talk .
aXet.talk   -   Setup  Settings  To access the settings section, you must select   'Administrator'   menu on the main page  of   aXet.talk .  Click on   'Settings'   and you will find   3   tabs to configure.  General  This tab likely contains the main configuration options for the assistant, such as its  purpose, password settings, and other general settings related to the assistant's behavior  and document handling.  Restrictive only for Project Users .   Allows restricting access only to users registered in the  project.  In the   ADMIN AREA   you can configure:  •   A password for accessing to Document manager section.  •   A password for accessing the administration panel of   aXet.talk.  In the   CHAT   section you can configure:
•   Assistant Suggests Possible Next Questions.   Enable this setting if you want the  assistant will suggest follow - up questions or the next steps after an interaction to  guide users in further inquiry.  •   Show Model in the Response.   When enabled, the AI assistant will display which  model or system was used to generate the response, giving more transparency on  how responses are created.  In the   RESPONSE BAR   section you can configure:  •   Name of Source Document in the Chat Response.   When enabled, the assistant  will display the name of the document it used as a source when responding to a  query. This is useful for tracking where the information came from.  •   Show Fragments of Relevant Documents (Display Bar).   Displays relevant  portions or fragments of documents when responding to user queries, providing  users with context around the answer.  •   Download Documents from the Response.   Allows users to download documents  directly from the response if they are referenced or used to answer a query.   This is a  helpful feature for document - heavy environments .  In the   VIDEO PROCESSOR   section you can configure:  •   You can enable or disable the Active video transcriptor option .  In the   DOCUMENT S   section you can configure:  •   The maximum expiration time of documents for their de - indexing in the RAG in case  they have not been used.  Assistant  On the Assistant screen you can configure: the default language (English), the Initial  Suggested Questions field, Initial Custom Chat Questions and enable or disable Active  GPT agents.
Parameters  This might lead to more advanced configuration options, possibly related to AI behavior,  model parameters, or system - level configurations.  In the   MODEL CONFIGURATION   section you can configure:  •   Model.   Allows the user to select which language model the assistant will use for  processing and generating responses. In this case, "gpt - 4 o " is selected, which likely  refers to the OpenAI GPT - 4 o   model. The dropdown menu provides other model  options.  In the   MODELS AVAILABLE   section you can configure:
•   Models.   You can add or remove models from this list. Click   ‘Remove item’   next to a  model to delete it. Ensure you select the appropriate model based on your needs.  In the   RETRIEVAL CONFIGURATION   section you can configure:  In this field you configure the number of pages considered for the response. The default  option is 20.   A higher number may improve completeness but can reduce relevance.  Agents  aXet.talk   allows the configuration of different agents specialized in specific tasks, such as  summarizing texts, validating data, ...  The use of these personalized assistants is transparent for the user, as they do not have to  force or select their application.   aXet.talk   autonomously decides which agents to apply  when crafting its response based on each of the user's questions. For example, if the user  requests a summary of a document, the system analyzes the question and will detect that  there is a specialized agent that   optimizes the possible response, “Summary Agent,” so it  will apply the specific prompt to obtain the most concise resu lt possible.  In case of applying any assistant in the formation of the response,   aXet.talk   will inform the  user about the agent that has been used.  Only system administrators can create new agents.  Click on   ‘New Task Agent’   to add a new agent to   .talk .  Setup the required parameters:  •   Agent Name   to provide a name to the new agent.   E.g.: Summary Agent.
•   Agent Role   to provide a description to new agent. This information will be the most  important when   aXet.talk   decides to use the agent in a conversation based on the  user's question.   E.g.: Summary.  •   Agent Backstory   to provide the profile for the new agent. E.g.: You are an intelligent  assistant specialized in document analysis. Your task is to help the user  understand, summarize and extract relevant information from uploaded  documents.  •   Agent Goal   to provide detailed instructions to the new agent. E.g.: Document -  based context   : Use the document’s content as the primary source of information  when answering questions. If the query is not covered in the document, clearly  state you do not have enough in formation. …  •   Agent Output   expected to provide the output format to the responses.  From the main ‘ Task   Agents’ page you can edit   and delete the agents from the list.  All Conversations  In this section , you can   get all users conversation history .
Click on the selected icons to d ownload, edit or delete each   conversation from the list.  You can also start a new chat or new chat with document.  Manage File  In this section, you   can   get the logs of the application . It   is very useful   check the logs   if an  error has occurred and you want to find information regarding it.  Release Notes  In this section, you can review the release notes of the different versions of   aXet.talk .
aXet.talk   –   Repository  Manage Documents Repository  In the process of implementing   aXet.talk ,   the   repository is created in SharePoint .  C lick on   'New Chat with Repository'   and access the page to upload, manage, or delete  documents by clicking on   'Manage Documents' .  Only system administrators can   manage the repository .  To upload documents, click on   ‘Add Documents’   button .  There are two ways to upload documents to the repository :  •   Directly upload .
Click on   'Open SharePoint'   button, select a folder from the repository, and upload  the files.  The video files must be uploaded directly to SharePoint.  Once the files are uploaded, you need to click on   ‘Load Documents’   or   ‘Load Media’  (depending on the format of the uploaded files)   to   index   the files . This way, the files  can be used .  •   Manually upload .  Click   on   ‘Upload Manually’   button   and   select the files   in   STEP 1 .  Then,   select in which folder or collection they will be saved. Here you can choose  an existing one or create a new one   in   STEP 2 .  Finally,   click on   'Upload'   to start the upload process.  When uploading files to   aXet.talk , the system automatically checks their names. If it  detects special characters that could interfere with the indexing process, those characters  are automatically removed to ensure proper file management .  In   ‘Knowledge Repository’   page you can find a list of all documents with information  regarding to   Document name ,   Document type ,   Collection   and   State .
In the last column   from the table, you can   download or delete every single document .   To  perform a global deletion of all files indexed in the instance, aXet.talk enables the "Delete  All Documents" button.  The   documents indexed   in aXet. talk   through the   SharePoint synchronization mechanism  have a   default   maximum   validity period of 90 days . The expiration time of each file is  displayed   in   the column   “Expiration date”   that shows   the date on which the indexed  contents of each file will   be   de - indexed.  This validity   date   is reset individually for each file   every time a query is made that, in order  to be answered, requires the information contained in that document.  If the configured time period expires without any query being made to aXet. talk   that  requires that document, its   indexed information will be released   in order to optimize the  use of the infrastructure.  If this happens and the user needs to   recover expired documents , they can do so from the  " Expired " option.   This option allows you to reindex the deleted information from each  expired file in case it has been previously removed from the RAG ,   as long as the original  document   still exists in SharePoint .
aXet.talk   -   Ask  Ask a Question  Once the documentation is uploaded and the assistant is trained, you can start asking  questions to the conversational assistant!  You have several options to do it .  New   Chat With Repository  1.   The f irst step is select a collection of documents if you want to   provide context to AI  and receive more accurate answers.   You can select one, several, all, or none of the  collections configured in   aXet.talk   and selectable in the window.  2.   Y ou can select one of the suggested questions.
3.   Or   you can ask open questions like a chat bot.  New   Chat With   Document  Click on   ‘ New Chat With Document ’   to ask questions about a specific uploaded  document.   aXet.talk   generates responses based on its understanding of the document's  content. This is particularly useful for lengthy documents, as it saves time by quickly  retrieving relevant information instead of manually searching through the entire text.
aXet.talk   will answer the question  1.   Model and Tokens . Shows information of the AI model and the number of tokens  used.  2.   Explanation . It is the detailed answer to the question asked.  3.   More suggested questions . Offers 3 more questions to further investigate the  initial question asked to the assistant.  4.   Copy . Allows you to copy the answer to the clipboard.
5.   Knowledge References.   Shows the fragments of the document from which you  have obtained the information.   Allows you to download the associated document.
aXet.talk   -   Best practices  Documents good practices  SharePoint Upload  You can bulk upload files from your SharePoint repository, with the following  considerations:  •   Supported File Types:   csv, eml, html, json, docx, doc, docm, xlsx, xls, xlsm, pptx,  ppt, pptm, msg, xml, odt, ods, odp, pdf, txt, rtf, xml, mp4, avi, mov, png, jpeg, jpg,  gif, webp .  •   File Replacement:   If a file is already indexed, you'll need to choose whether to  replace   it or   ignore   it during the upload process.  •   Processing Time:   The process will provide a detailed summary upon completion. If  you are uploading a large number of files, please note that processing may take  several minutes.  Ensure that your SharePoint folder structure and file selection align with these guidelines  for a smoother upload experience.  Upload Manually  Individual Upload: Files can be uploaded one by one if preferred..  You can bulk upload files from your SharePoint repository, with the following  considerations:  •   Supported File Types:   csv, eml, html, json, docx, doc, docm, xlsx, xls, xlsm, pptx,  ppt, pptm, msg, xml, odt, ods, odp, pdf, txt, rtf, xml.   Multimedia files are not  allowed.  •   File Replacement:   If a file is already indexed, you'll need to choose whether to  replace   it or   ignore   it during the upload process.  •   Processing Time:   The process will provide a detailed summary upon completion. If  you are uploading a large number of files, please note that processing may take  several minutes.
aXet.talk   –   FAQs  What files can I upload to the tool?  You can upload any type of file to   aXet.talk , as long as they do not contain personal or  sensitive data.  Examples of files that   should not be uploaded to the tool   would be payroll, bank  statements, or files with information under an NDA.  What type of files can be uploaded to the assistant?  After the migration of the   . talk   engine to Azure AI Search,   csv, eml, html, json, docx, doc,  docm, xlsx, xls, xlsm, pptx, ppt, pptm, msg, xml, odt, ods, odp, pdf, txt, rtf, xml, mp4, avi,  mov, png, jpeg, jpg, gif, webp   files are processed natively by the assistant.  You can also upload videos, and the tool allows responses based on the conversation and  the ability to reference specific timestamps discussed in the video.  What are the   current limits of aXet.tal k   for managing documents ?  After the migration of   aXet.talk   engine to Azure AI Search, the capacity of each instance to  handle documentation is:  •   300 files maximum.  •   400mb maximum size for video .  •   30mb maximum size for files .  These limits are set for each instance of   aXet.talk   as default general metrics, but they  could be overridden in case of special need at configuration time.  How can I improve   the AI’s reponses?  The tool has various adjustable parameters such as the top number of most similar search  results or minimum accuracy thresholds, and the option to select different models.
Initially, an expert with knowledge of the system will setup these parameters for optimal  performance.  What type of documents does the AI understand best?  The more detailed and verbose the document content, the better the AI will understand  and respond. Keep in mind that these types of tools don't actually "train" the models but  rather use vectorial search algorithms combined with generative models to provid e  responses.
aXet.talk   –   Glossary  This is a glossary of relevant terms:  •   Generative AI  Generative Artificial Intelligence is a field of Artificial Intelligence that encompasses  systems and algorithms capable of generating new, original, and creative content.  This type of AI learns from enormous datasets and generates new similar content  (tex t, images, music, and other types of data). It falls within a specific type of  Machine Learning known as Deep Learning, which is based on the use of deep  neural networks. These networks are configured in various architectures, such as  Generative Adversaria l Networks (GANs) or diffusion models based on  Transformers.  •   Machine Learning  Machine Learning is a branch of computer science that aims to enable computers  to perform tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so. These are models  that can gradually improve their accuracy based on the data provided. Its most  basic application   is the practice of using algorithms to process data, learn from it,  and then be able to make a prediction or suggestion about something. It comprises  three categories of learning: supervised, unsupervised, and reinforcement learning.  •   Supervised Learning  Supervised Learning is a type of learning in Machine Learning models that relies on  labeled data and has high accuracy and easily interpretable results, which is why it  is widely used in industry. Its main drawback is that it requires data to be previously  labeled (which can be costly or unfeasible in many cases).  •   Unsupervised Learning  Unsupervised Learning is a type of learning in ML models that uses unlabeled data  and, unlike Supervised Learning models, can detect hidden patterns in the data  without human intervention. This includes clustering algorithms, for example, to  group customer s into segments and detect similar behaviors.  •   Reinforcement Learning  Reinforcement Learning is a type of learning in ML models where the machine is  guided to learn from the repetition of actions and associated rewards. The agent,  representing the machine, takes actions in an environment and receives rewards  when correct dec isions are made. Over time, the agent learns to choose the correct
actions to maximize its reward. Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback is  the technique behind large language models like ChatGPT.  •   Neural Networks  Neural networks are a type of computational model that teaches machines to  process data in a way inspired by the human brain. It consists of a set of units,  called artificial neurons, connected to transmit signals. The input information  passes through the   neural network (where it undergoes various operations),  producing output values.  •   Deep Learning  Deep Learning is a type of Machine Learning that uses complex neural networks  with three or more layers. These neural networks attempt to emulate the behavior of  the human brain — though far from matching its capacity — but allow it to "learn"  from large amoun ts of data. While a single - layer neural network can make  approximate predictions, additional hidden layers add complexity to the model and  help optimize its accuracy.  •   GAN  Generative Adversarial Networks, or GANs, are a method based on training two  neural networks, one called the generator and the other the discriminator, which  compete with each other to generate new instances that resemble the training data  distribution.  •   LM and LLM   –   Large Language Models  Language models (LM) are machine learning models that predict the next word in a  sentence, considering the context of previous words. They are based on a  probabilistic description of language phenomena. A colossal language model or  LLM, also called a large   language model, is a language model consisting of a neural  network with many parameters, trained on large amounts of unlabeled text through  self - supervised or semi - supervised learning. These models can be used in a wide  range of natural language processing tasks, such as text creation, document  summarization, or language translation.  •   NLP  Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a field within artificial intelligence and applied  linguistics that studies interactions using natural language between humans and  machines. It focuses on processing human communications, breaking them into  parts, and i dentifying the most relevant elements of the message. With Natural
Language Understanding and Generation, it aims for machines to understand,  interpret, and manipulate human language.  •   Open AI  Open AI is an artificial intelligence (AI) research lab founded in 2015 that operates  with the declared intention of promoting and developing friendly and democratized  AI. OpenAI systems run on a supercomputing platform based on Microsoft's Azure,  and some   of its best - known works are generative AIs like ChatGPT (the leading  conversational AI) or DALL·E (the AI for generating images from natural language).  •   Chat - GPT  Chat GPT is a language model developed by OpenAI that employs natural language  processing (NLP) techniques to generate coherent and natural responses in real -  time. Its free version uses the GPT - 3.5 model, and the most current version is GPT -  4.  •   Prompts  A "prompt" in AI refers to an instruction or request that a user makes to an LLM,  chatbot, or AI model. This instruction can come not only in natural language (text or  audio) but also in other formats like images or code. The careful and concise  preparatio n of these instructions is known as "prompting," and it ultimately aims to  obtain the desired results or responses from LLMs or generative models of images  and videos.  •   Token  In the context of large language models or LLMs, a token is a basic unit of  information for text processing. These tokens generally correspond to words or  phrases, but they can also be punctuation marks or numbers. Transforming text  into chains of tokens a llows LLMs to process user prompts and generate  corresponding responses. A model like GPT - 3.5 could handle 4,096 tokens or  around 8,000 words. The number of tokens processed in an input grows as more  complex LLMs are trained.  •   Transformer  It is a neural network architecture that has served as the basis for deep learning  models used in modern generative AI models. Transformers specialize in  processing sequential information, such as natural language, and for this, they  employ the self - attent ion mechanism, where different weights are given to each  part of the input. These models take a sentence in the form of a sequence of  vectors, convert it into an encoded vector, which is then decoded into an output
sequence. This architecture was proposed by a group of Google researchers in  2017, in the seminal paper "Attention is all you need."  •   RAG  Retrieval - Augmented Generation (RAG) is a methodology to optimize LLMs so that  they take into account a reference knowledge base when generating responses.  This way, with RAG, we augment LLMs' capabilities with internal or specific  information that has bee n trained with large volumes of generic data.
