aXet. cover :   A solution to generate unit tests in  bulk from code files  Designed to streamline the use of generative AI in our daily services.  It is part of the aXet platform.  aXet.cover   –   Installation  Before starting   aXet.cover installation , you need to download the   .cover   installer. Here is a  link   to the latest version.  Administrator permission is not required to install aXet.cover  If you already have the   aXet - cover Setup.exe   file, these are the steps to install it.  1.   Double click on the .exe file to start the installation.  2.   After installation, you must log in with your OKTA authentication.
If you are in more than one project, the first one will be considered, with no option to  select another.  3.   Select the desired language and framework.
4.   You are ready to start using   aXet.cover .  Important: Your user must have access to a project in aXet in order to use .cover.
aXet. cover   –   Interface  Let's introduce the graphical   interface of   aXet. cover .  When running   aXet.cover , the first step is to select the language and the testing  framework that you will use to generate the unit tests in your project.  aXet.cover   interface for Java   and .NET   projects  This is the first   screen when you have selected a Java   or .NET   project in   .cover .  These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   Access a project to send files to generate unit tests or view projects that have  already been processed.  2.   Edits the name of this   project.  3.   Deletes this project.  4.   Consults the processing of projects that have the status “processing”.  5.   Adds a new project.  6.   Opens   aXet.cover   documentation.  7.   Opens login/logout options.
8.   Displays information about the selected language and framework. Clicking on the  icons allows changing the language and/or the framework.  This is the screen when you are processing a project.  These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   Returns to the project screen.  2.   Allows you to select a directory in your project to upload the files.  3.   Allows you to upload a pom.xml /csproj   file , depending on the technology selected .  (Necessary when it was not possible to identify   it   automatically with the project  selection).  4.   Tree of files in your project where you can select which ones you   want to send for  processing or simply view the generated tests if already completed.  5.   Copies the respective code to the clipboard.  6.   Copies the respective code to the clipboard.  7.   Sends the selected test files for processing.  8.   Downloads the tests to the desired directory.
aXet.cover   interface for Angular and React projects  This is the first screen when you have selected an Angular or React project in   .cover .  These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   Allows you to select a directory in your   project to upload the files.  2.   Opens   aXet.cover   documentation.  3.   Opens login/logout options.  This is the screen when you are processing a project.  These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   Allows you to select a directory in your project to upload the files.
2.   Tree of files in your project where you can select which ones you want to send for  processing or simply view the generated tests if already completed.  3.   Copies the Source Code to the clipboard.  4.   Copies the Test Code to the clipboard.  5.   Sends to AI to make improvements to the tests.  6.   Downloads the tests to the desired directory.
aXet. cover   -   Using it  Generating tests for Java   and .NET   projects  Once you have selected   Java / JUnit   or   .NET / xU nit   you can create several projects that  will allow you to   store configurations and test files generated by the AI.  Click on   ‘Add Project’   button and provide a name for it.  Here you will be able to upload the project by clicking on   ‘Get Source’   button.  Then, select from the tree   which files you want the   tests to be generated for.
If the POM.xml   or .csproj   file is not automatically identified, you must upload it  manually.  Then, click on   ‘Generate with AI’   button to start the process.  After selecting the files and sending them for processing, your project will be in a "in  process" state, and you will be able to check the completion manually by clicking  the   ‘Consult Processing’   button or waiting for the automatic update.  Once completed, you can view the generated test file and download all of them.
Generating tests for Angular and React projects  Once you have selected   Angular   or   React   you can upload the project files by clicking  on   ‘Get Source’   button.  Then, select from the tree   which files you want the tests to be generated for.
Then,   click on   ‘Improve with AI’   button to start the process.  After selecting the files and sending them for processing, your project will be in a "in  process" state , and you'll have to wait for it to be completed before you can see the result.  Finally, you can download the results.
aXet. cover   -   Best practices  Select the code/files you are interested in  Before starting the automated and massive generation process of unit tests in your project,  analyze the files you want to process with   aXet.cover   and select only the ones that interest  you.  Remember that selecting more files incurs a cost in tokens and   resources, which means  an economic cost.  So, to optimize the generation of unit tests in any project, whether   .NET,   Java, Angular, or  React, avoid selecting and sending files for which it is not necessary to generate unit tests.  Java Projects  If you are developing a Java project, remember that before generating unit tests  with   aXet.cover   you must include the   pom.xml   file.  .NET   Projects  If you are developing a   .NET   project, remember that before generating unit tests  with   aXet.cover   you must include the   .csproj   file.  Keep .cover updated  Keep   .cover   updated to get all available functionality and improvements. This will save you  time in development.  Follow the   link   to get the latest version of   aXet.cover .
aXet. cover   –   FAQs  What can I do with aXet.cover?  You can generate unit tests using artificial   intelligence for your project quickly, practically  and safely.  What testing languages and frameworks are available?  The languages and frameworks currently supported are:  1   -   React   with   Jest   and   ReactTestingLibrary .  2   -   Angular   with   Karma   and   Jest .  3   -   Java   with   JUnit .  4   -   .NET   with   xUnit .  How can I download aXet.cover?  Download it   here   and if you have any doubts about installing it, follow these step - by - step  instructions in th is   User Guide.
