aXet.flows: A platform to automate IT  services quickly and easily  A flow - based system that interacts with any system and application, communicates with  users, controls devices using RPA techniques, and applies AI for decision - making.  It is part of the   aXet   platform.  aXet.flows   -   First steps & Installation  Access aXet.flows  First step is to access the   web interface .  1.   Log in to Okta platform. You can mark the   ‘Keep me signed in’   check.  2.   Select the option to verify your credentials.
3.   Once logged into Okta, you can now access   aXet.flows.  4.   If it is your first time accesing to aXet , otherwise, you can skip this step :  a)   Select the project you are going to work in.  b)   If you do not find your project in the list, you can request the creation  of a new one.  c)   Once you have a project, Click on   ‘Save’   button to start   aXet.flows .  Install   aXet.flows   Installer  The second step is to install the   aXet.flows   installer.  Minimum System Requirements  You must have a PC with at least the following specifications:  •   The   hardware   of the equipment must meet the following characteristics:  o   64 - bit processor with Second Level Address Translation (SLAT).
o   Hardware virtualization support must be enabled in the BIOS  settings.   For more information, click   here .  o   At least 8 GB of RAM.  o   Between 8 - 10 GB of free disk space to carry out the installation of  the various tools mentioned below.  •   Operating System :  o   Windows 10 64 - bit: Pro, Enterprise, or Education (Build 15063 or  higher).  •   Software :  o   Google Chrome internet browser, updated to the latest stable  version available.  Installation  Below, the steps you must follow to correctly carry out the installation of the tool  are detailed so that you can design your own flows.  You can obtain the necessary installer by clicking on your (previously registered)  user and selecting the   'Download Flows Installer'   menu item.  Remember that you must have the administrator password to carry out the  installation.  These are the steps to install   aXet.flows .  1.   Run the   aXet - flows_installer.exe   file to start the installation process.  2.   A PowerShell instance will open where you need to enter your username  (short name) and password.  4.   After validating your credentials, select the option to start the installation  process.
5.   Choose   I   for   starting   installation.  6.   This process will install   also   the required tools:  Run   aXet.flows   Desktop  The third step, before starting to design flows, is to run   aXet.flows - Desktop .exe .  You can download the executable from the menu that opens when you click on  your username. It is the same menu where you downloaded the   aXet.flows  installer.  You can find the   aXet.flows   running icon in the systray.
You already have all the tools installed and you are ready to start using   aXet.flows .  Launch   it   from the context menu , select   Open aXet.flows Web .
aXet.flows   –   Interface  Let's introduce the graphical interface of   aXet.flows .  Select if you want to know the web interface that allows you to manage  development projects or the web interface that allows you to design it.  Home Page  Let's introduce the graphical interface of   aXet.flows .  Here you can see the home page of   .flows .  You can click on the numbers to get the description of the main elements or you  can read it below the image.  These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   Catalog & Dashboard.  By clicking on this section, you can access the   Catalog   of development projects  that you own and/or have access to, and the   Dashboard   that shows in real - time  the instances that are running.  2.   Flows Repository .  In this section, you have access to:  a.   Nodes Libraries . Here you can find the nodes creates  by   aXet.flows   users that extend the possibilities it offer.
b.   Shared Subflows . A subflow is a collection of nodes that are  collapsed into a single node. Here you can find the subflows  developed by   aXet.flows   users.  c.   All Rankings . Here you can find the most used and highly rated node  libraries and shared subflows by   aXet.flows   users.  3.   Digital Workers.  In this section, you can monitor the status of your development projects that  use   'Worker'   nodes for unattended execution.  4.   Blog .  In this section, you can find information about   .flows , such as a blog and FAQs.  5.   Shortcuts .  In this section, you can find shortcuts to the most used tools, as well as  information related to   aXet.flow s.  6.   All Ranking .  In this section, you can find different rankings related to nodes and subflows most  used and highly rated by the users of   aXet.flows .  Catalog & Dashboard  Catalog  Let's introduce   Catalog   section.
You can visualize all the information of the different development projects that,  either you own them, or you have access to execute/evolve them. For each of the  development projects, you have the following information on the screen:  •   Name   at the header of the card.  •   Project   to which the development project has been assigned.   You can find:  o   Public development projects, without an assigned project.  o   Development projects that have a project assigned. These will only  be accessible by those users who are members of the project.  •   User   who has the development project locked. Until that user unlocks the  development project, it cannot be evolved by another user who has access  to it.  •   Description   of the development project.  •   Creation date   of the development project .  •   Date of the last modification . The following actions on the development  project are considered a modification:  o   Modification of the metadata that identifies the development  project.  o   Creation of new versions of the development project.  o   Addition/modification of the meta - information associated with the  development project.  For each of the development projects, we will have access to different  functionalities through the button panel located at the footer of each card  representing an development project. The buttons allow performing the following  actions:  •   Delete.   Allows for the logical deletion of the development project in  question. This action can only be performed by administrators as well as by  the owner of the development project.  •   Lock/Unlock   development project for editing. Allows locking/unlocking the  development project to carry out its editing and/or to release it so that it can  be edited by another user. The development project should only be locked if  there is a desire to evolve its beha vior, that is, the development project  designed in   aXet.flows   with the aim of evolving/correcting the various  functionalities and/or automatisms that this development project adds as  added value.
It will not be necessary to lock the development project to modify its meta -  information (name, associated project, keywords, ...).  •   Fork.   The concept of fork is exactly the same as found in the lifecycle of a  Git repository, on platforms such as GitHub or GitLab. Ultimately, the goal is  to make a "clone" of a development project so that it can be evolved by  another person, without the origin al development project being impacted,  or simply to create a new development project that starts from a baseline  that was created upon the conception of an already existing development  project on the platform.  A fork of a development project can only be conducted if it has at least one usable  version to execute, that is, if a first usable version of the product has been  released.  •   View custom usage log.   Allows viewing the information related to the  usage log being performed by a development project.  •   Meta - information aggregator.   Allows access to the dashboard to add/edit  the meta - information associated with the development project.  •   Run it!.   Through this button, we will access the development project  version management form, which will allow us to:  o   Develop a new version of the development project, starting if it exists  from its immediately previous version. For this action, it will be  necessary to lock the development project, an action that will be  directly proposed by the platform.  o   Execute already developed and consolidated versions of a  development project. When running a flow in "production mode", we  will not have access to its designer, we will simply be able to use the  functionalities it provides, as if it were any other differen t software  that we can use while at the computer.  •   Edit.   Allows modifying the meta - information that conceptually identifies  the conception of the development project (name, project, description,  keywords) as well as the members, along with the permissions, who have  access to the development project.  Dashboard  Let's introduce   Dashboard   section.
This section allows for a global view of all development projects instances that are  operational/running on our PC. The platform relies on the   aXet.flows  Desktop   component to manage the development projects that are "up", whether  in "design mode" or in "production mode":  •   Design mode . The   aXet.flows   platform will only allow one development  project to be up in design mode at any one time.  •   Production mode . The   aXet.flows   platform allows for different  development projects to be up for use. The production mode is designed to  use a coded version of the software at the end - user level, without any  modifications. At the same time, we can have more than one development  project u p in production mode on our PC. The only restriction to keep in  mind is that we can't run two different versions of the same development  project in "production mode".  Here is the information you can get about the development project:  •   Alias   provided to the project.  •   Project   Description .  •   Created date   is the date the project was created.  •   Created user   is the user who created the project.  •   Version   indicates the version numbers of the project, the different versions  will be seen in the list.  •   Analysis   informs about the security analysis status of the project. If you  click on the icon, the analysis will start. You can find more information  about this analysis   here . These are the different statuses:  •   Yellow, the project has not been executed.  •   Orange, the analysis is being executed.
•   Green, it has successfully completed.  •   Red, an issue has been reported that needs to be resolved.  In the last column of the table, you find the icons that allow you to perform the  following actions:  •   Edit . If there are multiple versions, it is only available for the last one.  •   Given a version of the development project, it allows viewing relevant meta -  information about it, such as which nodes have been used in the  construction of the development project.  •   Run this version . Starts the development project in production mode. It  allows running the selected version of the development project developed  with   aXet.flows .  •   Stand - alone deployment . You have two options: deploy it on a remote  server or generate an executable file for Windows 32 and 64 bits, Linux  (Debian - based 64 bits), or Mac OS X (64 bits).  •   Export version . It allows exporting the version of the development project,  so it can be imported into the same environment or a different environment.  A file with the extension *.deptapp will be downloaded to your PC.  •   Delete   the selected version of the development project.  Ultimately, the   Dashboard   section allows us to view the instances of the different  development projects that are up, in one mode or another. The information  displayed for each running flow is as follows:
•   Name   of the development project.  •   Version running . If the development project is up in "design mode," it  means a new version of the development project is being designed/coded,  starting from the version shown in the header. If the development project is  up in "production mode," it means the version shown   of the development  project is being executed.  •   Internally assigned name for the   Docker container   startup.  •   Tag of the   Docker image   used at startup.  •   Container startup date.  •   Volume bindings .  •   Ports   occupied by the   flow designer .  •   Ports for remote desktop connection   (VNC) to the Docker container.  •   Informative messages.  o   If the remote desktop connection to the container has been enabled,  the web will show an informative message with the VNC connection  password to the Docker container.  o   If we have enabled the startup of the embedded Desktop Control  Server within the Docker container itself, the system will display an  informative message indicating this.
At the bottom of the card, we have the following buttons available:  •   Real - time log visualization of the development project execution.   Allows the  internal logs of the   aXet.flows   execution to be viewed from the platform's  web. This functionality enables the detection of possible internal anomalies  presented by a development project, which go beyond the programming of  the features themselves, and is an internal core error of  the   aXet.flows   designer/executor.  •   Download log file of the development project execution. If with the previous  button, we could visualize the execution log, with this button we can  download the log file.  •   Stop the   aXet.flows   instance.   Allows stopping the running instance, either  in design mode or production mode on our PC.  •   Remote desktop connection with HTTP client (noVNC) to the  container.   aXet.flows.   Clicking this button will open a new tab in the web  browser where we have remote desktop access to the Docker container  itself, as if it were a physical computer with a desktop. On connecting to the  desktop, we will be asked for the connection password. On ce entered, we  will have remote desktop access to open a bash and run commands inside  the Docker container, and/or open Google Chrome, install packages, or  whatever we conside r necessary.  •   Access the   aXet.flows   designer.   When the   aXet.flows   is running in design  mode, this button will open a new tab in the web browser, where we will  have access to the   aXet.flows   designer.  Designer  Let's introduce the graphical interface of   aXet.flows   designer.
These are the points highlighted in the image:  1.   The   header   at the top, containing the ‘Deploy’, ‘AI Assistant’, ‘Flows  Assistant’ and ‘Save in cloud’ buttons, and main menu.  2.   The   palette   on the left, containing the nodes available to use.  They are organised into a number of categories, with inputs, outputs and  functions at the top. If there are any subflows, they appear in a category at  the top of the palette.  Categories can be expanded or collapsed by clicking its header.  Above the palette is an input that can be used to filter the list of nodes.  3.   The main   workspace   in the middle, where flows are developed by dragging  nodes from the palette and wiring them together. The workspace has a row  of tabs along the top; one for each flow and any subflows that have been  opened.  The footer of the workspace contains buttons to zoom in and out as well as  to reset to the default zoom level.  The workspace view can be customised via the ‘View’ tab of the User  Settings dialog.  4.   The   sidebar   on the right contains panels that provide a number of useful  tools within the editor.  a.   Flow debugger . It provides a flow debugger with the following  features:  i.   set breakpoints on node inputs or outputs  ii.   pause the runtime manually or when a message arrives at a  breakpoint  iii.   once paused you can:  1.   inspect the queued up messages  2.   step forward individual messages  3.   drop messages  b.   Debug   sidebar displays messages passed to   ‘Debug nodes’   within  the flow, as well as certain log messages from the runtime. The panel  provides three options: all nodes, selected nodes, current flow.
c.   Information   sidebar shows information about the flows. This  includes an outline view of all flows and nodes, as well as details of  the current selection.  d.   Context data   sidebar displays the contents of the context data  store. The panel is split into three sections, one for each context  scope: node, flow and global.  e.   Configuration Nodes   sidebar provides a list of all config nodes,  organised by their scope. Each node shows its type and label, along  with a count of how many regular flow nodes currently use that  config node. If the config node is unused, it is shown with a dotted  outline.
aXet.flows   -   Using it  Create a New Flow  On the Home Page of   aXet.flows , you can find shortcuts to manage your  development projects.  These are the features you can find:  •   New aXet flow . Click on this button to create a new development project  from scratch.   You must complete the following fields:  o   Name   (It is a required field). It is the name that the development  project will have.  o   Main project   (It is a required field). It is the project to which the  development project will be associated. All users of the platform  that have this project associated will have this development project  visible.  o   Category   (It is a required field). Select from the dropdown the  category that best fits the development.
o   Use case   (It is a required field). Once the category is selected, the  use cases corresponding to that category are filled in.   You must  select a   'Use case'   for your development.  o   Description   (It is an optional field). It allows adding a description to  the development project that can facilitate its search in the catalog  and be reused by other users.  o   Search tags   (It is an optional field). It allows you to associate a  series of keywords with the development project, so that later we  can search for it by those keywords in the catalog.  Click on   ‘Save’   button to create the development project. The platform will ask us if  we want to manage the members who will have access to the new development  project. Otherwise, we can manage the members later.  When we add a user as a member of a flow, we can assign them different types of  permissions, to assign greater or lesser privilege in the manipulation of it. The  types of permissions are as follows:  o   - Executor . Members with this role will only be able to execute in  "production mode," that is, to start and use a usable version at the  end - user level of a development project. These users will not be able  to design or evolve the development project in question.  o   - Forker . In addition to the characteristics indicated for the Executor  role, the ability to carry out a Fork of the flow in question is added.  o   - Modifier . In addition to the characteristics indicated for the Forker  role, the possibility of designing new versions of the development  project is added, such that the development project could be  blocked by this type of users to design/code new features or evolv e  the existing ones. Essentially, it is as if the source code were  modified, at the level of development project design, of the  development project to be able to release a new version of it.  o   - Co - owner . A co - owner has permissions to use all available  functionalities that can be carried out on a development project,  except the possibility of deactivating it.  You can now find your development project in the   Catalog   to start developing it.  •   Catalog . You can visualize all the information of the different development  projects that, either you own them, or you have access to execute/evolve  them.  Select the development project you want to work on and click the   'Run this  one!'   button.
It will show you that there is currently no version of the development project  available. Click on the   'New version'   button.  Click on ‘Yes’ in this Warning message.  Select   ‘Regular deployment’   that will take you to the development  environment to start designing or   ‘Customize deployment’   if you want to  work with an older version of the development environment.  The platform checks if it is necessary to update any of the components  required to run the   aXet.flows   designer.  Once the check is complete and the update, if needed, is done, the  designer will open.
•   Dashboard . This section allows for a global view of all development project  instances that are operational/running on our PC.  •   Documentation . This section takes you to the Confluence page where you  can find information about   aXet.flows .  •   Nodes Libraries . This section takes you to Flow Repository / Nodes  Libraries section  •   Stack aXet.flows Overflow . This section takes you to a channel  of   aXet.flows   platform so you can interact with other users.  •   Shared Subflows . Shared flows should always be contextualized as  subflows within the flow designer.  A   subflow   is a collection of nodes that are collapsed into a single node in  the designer workspace.  They can be used to reduce some visual complexity of a flow, or to package  up a group of nodes as a reusable flow used in multiple places.  Once created, the subflow is added to the palette of available nodes.  Individual instances of the subflow can then be added to the workspace just  like any other node.  This section shows the available shared subflows developed  by   aXet.flows   users.  You can click the   'Like'   or   'Dislike'   buttons to rate them. This way they will be  highlighted in the ranking.  Shared subflows must be created inside a aXet.flows instance
•   Latest Releases . This section takes you to a channel  of   aXet.flows   platform so you can interact with other users.  •   News .   This section takes you to   aXet.flows   news.  Start a development project from scratch  You are going to create your first application with   aXet.flows   starting from scratch.  You will start by getting to know the main elements available in the designer.  Nodes  The   palette   on the left contains the nodes available to use. You can find different  sections:  •   ui . You will find nodes that allow you to easily design the graphical interface  of an application.  •   rag . You will find nodes to implement a RAG (Retrieval Augmented  Generation) system.  •   axet . You will find nodes to use components of the   aXet   platform.  •   generativeai . You will find nodes to use generative AI.  •   database . You will find nodes to connect, create, and use a database.  •   network . You will find nodes to use web services.  •   utils . You will find nodes with different utilities.  •   parser . You will find nodes to parse different file formats.  •   storage . You will find nodes to work with files.  •   process control . You will find nodes to monitor, debug, and manage errors  in the application.  •   msg control . You will find nodes to manage messages.  •   worker . You will find nodes to manage ' Digital workers' .  •   credentials . You will find nodes to manage credentials in the application.  •   email . You will find nodes to manage emails.  •   Excel Utils . You will find nodes to manage Excel files.  •   session . You will find nodes to manage sessions in the application.
•   audit . You will find the   ‘use case’   node, that is mandatory to inform the use  cases that solve your development project.  •   enabler . You will find AI nodes that allow, for example, transcribing and  translating an audio file.  If you hover the mouse over the nodes found in these sections, you will see a  description of them and know what you can use them for.  If you want to consult detailed information about each of the nodes available  in the palette, select it in the workspace and choose the 'info' tab in the right  sidebar.  Nodes can be added to the workspace by:  •   Scroll through the palette until you find the node you want to use and drag it  to the workspace.  •   Use the search in the palette to filter the node you want to use and drag it to  the workspace.  •   Position yourself in the workspace, press the   ‘CTRL’   key while clicking the  left mouse button. A list of all available nodes will appear, select the one  you want to use.  Here you can find documentation of the core set you should know about.  •   Inject . The Inject node can be used to manual trigger a flow by clicking the  node’s button within the editor. It can also be used to automatically trigger  flows at regular intervals. The message sent by the   Inject   node can have  its   ‘payload’   and   ‘topic’   properties set.  •   Debug . The Debug node can be used to display messages in the Debug  sidebar within the editor. The sidebar provides a structured view of the  messages it is sent, making it easier to explore the message. Alongside  each message, the debug sidebar includes informat ion about the time the  message was received and which   Debug   node sent it. Clicking on the  source node id will reveal that node within the workspace.  The button on the node can be used to enable or disable its output. It is  recommended to disable or remove any Debug nodes that are not being  used.  The node can also be configured to send all messages to the runtime log, or  to send short (32 characters) to the status text under the debug node.  •   Function . The Function node allows JavaScript code to be run against the  messages that are passed through it.
•   Change.   The Change node can be used to modify a message’s properties  and set context properties without having to resort to a Function node. Each  node can be configured with multiple operations that are applied in order.  The available operations are:  o   Set   for set a property. The value can be a variety of different types, or  can be taken from an existing message or context property.  o   Change   for search and replace parts of a message property.  o   Move   for move or rename a property.  o   Delete   for delete a property.  •   Switch . The Switch node allows messages to be routed to different  branches of a flow by evaluating a set of rules against each message. The  name "switch" comes from the "switch statement" that is common to many  programming languages. The node is configured with   the property to test   -  which can be either a message property or a context property.   There are four  types of rule:  o   Value   rules are evaluated against the configured property.  o   Sequence   rules can be used on message sequences, such as those  generated by the Split node.  o   A JSONata   Expression   can be provided that will be evaluated  against the whole message and will match if the expression returns a  true value.  o   An   Otherwise   rule can be used to match if none of the preceding  rules have matched.  •   Template . The Template node can be used to generate text using a  message’s properties to fill out a template. If the template generates valid  JSON or YAML content, it can be configured to parse the result to the  corresponding JavaScript Object.  Nodes are wired together by pressing the left - mouse button on a node’s port,  dragging to the destination node and releasing the mouse button.  Messages  A flow works by passing messages between nodes. The messages are simple  JavaScript objects that can have any set of properties.
Messages usually have a ‘ payload’   property   -   this is the default property that most  nodes will work with.  The easiest way to understand the structure of a message is to pass it to a   ‘Debug  node'   and view it in the   ‘Debug sidebar’ .  By default, the   ‘Debug node'   will display the   msg.payload   property, but can be  configured to display any property or the whole message.  When displaying an Array or Object, the sidebar provides a structured view that  can be used to explore the message.  •   At the top it shows the name of the property that has been passed in.  •   Next to the property name is the type of the property: Object, String, Array,  etc.  •   It then shows the contents of the property. For Arrays and Objects, the  property is collapsed into a single line. By clicking on it, the property will  expand to show more detail.  If a message property contains a JSON string it must first be parsed to its  equivalent JavaScript object before the properties it contains can be  accessed. To determine whether a property contains a String or Object, the  Debug node can be used.  aXet.flows   provides a JSON node to do this conversion.  A common task in a flow is to modify the properties of a message as it passes  between nodes. For example, the result of an HTTP Request may be an object with  many properties, of which only some are needed.  There are two main nodes for modifying a message, the Function node and the  Change node.  •   The Function node allows you to run any JavaScript code against the  message. This gives you complete flexibility in what you do with the  message, but does require familiarity with JavaScript and is unnecessary for  many simple cases.  •   The Change node provides a lot of functionality without needing to write  JavaScript code. Not only can it modify message properties, but it can also  access flow and global context.
Functions  The Function node allows JavaScript code to be run against the messages that are  passed through it.  The message is passed in as an object called msg. By convention it will have  a   ‘msg.payload’   property containing the body of the message.  Other nodes may attach their own properties to the message, and they should be  described in their documentation.  Writing a Function  The code entered into the Function node represents the body of the function.  The function must always return a msg object. Returning a number or string will  result in an error.  The returned message object does not need to be same object as was passed in;  the function can construct a completely new object before returning it. For  example:  var newMsg = { payload: msg.payload.length };  return newMsg;  Use node.warn() to show warnings in the sidebar to help you debug. For example:  node.warn("my var xyz = " + xyz);  Multiple Outputs  The function edit dialog allows the number of outputs to be changed. If there is  more than one output, an array of messages can be returned by the function to  send to the outputs.  This makes it easy to write a function that sends the message to different outputs  depending on some condition. For example, this function would send anything on  topic “banana” to the second output rather than the first:  if (msg.topic === "banana") {  return [ null, msg ];  } else {  return [ msg, null ];  }
The following example passes the original message as - is on the first output and a  message containing the payload length is passed to the second output:  var newMsg = { payload: msg.payload.length };  return [msg, newMsg];  Multiple Messages  A function can return multiple messages on an output by returning an array of  messages within the returned array. When multiple messages are returned for an  output, subsequent nodes will receive the messages one at a time in the order they  were returned.  In the following example, msg1, msg2, msg3 will be sent to the first output. msg4  will be sent to the second output.  var msg1 = { payload:"first out of output 1" };  var msg2 = { payload:"second out of output 1" };  var msg3 = { payload:"third out of output 1" };  var msg4 = { payload:"only message from output 2" };  return [ [ msg1, msg2, msg3 ], msg4 ];  The following example splits the received payload into individual words and  returns a message for each of the words.  var outputMsgs = [];  var words = msg.payload.split(" ");  for (var w in words) {  outputMsgs.push({payload:words[w]});  }  return [ outputMsgs ];  Sending messages asynchronously  If the function needs to perform an asynchronous action before sending a message  it cannot return the message at the end of the function.  Instead, it must make use of the node.send() function, passing in the message(s)  to be sent. It takes the same arrangement of messages as that can be returned, as  described in the previous sections.  For example:  doSomeAsyncWork(msg, function(result) {  msg.payload = result;  node.send(msg);
});  return;  The Function node will clone every message object you pass to node.send to  ensure there is no unintended modification of message objects that get reused in  the function.  The Function can request the runtime to not clone the first message passed to  node.send by passing in false as a second argument to the function. It would do  this if the message contains something that is not otherwise cloneable, or for  performance reasons   to minimise the overhead of sending messages:  node.send(msg,false);  Finishing with a message  If a Function node does asynchronous work with a message, the runtime will not  automatically know when it has finished handling the message.  To help it do so, the Function node should call node.done() at the appropriate time.  This will allow the runtime to properly track messages through the system.  doSomeAsyncWork(msg, function(result) {  msg.payload = result;  node.send(msg);  node.done();  });  return;  Running code on start  The Function node provides an On Start tab where you can provide code that will  run whenever the node is started. This can be used to setup any state the Function  node requires.  For example, it can initialise values in local context that the main Function will use:  if (context.get("counter") === undefined) {  context.set("counter", 0)  }  The On Start function can return a Promise if it needs to complete asynchronous  work before the main Function can start processing messages. Any messages that  arrive before the On Start function has completed will be queued up, and handled  when it is ready .
Tidying up  If you do use asynchronous callback code in your functions then you may need to  tidy up any outstanding requests, or close any connections, whenever the flow  gets re - deployed. You can do this in two different ways.  Either by adding a close event handler:  node.on('close', function() {  // tidy up any async code here   -   shutdown connections and so  on.  });  Or, you can add code to the On Stop tab in the node’s edit dialog.  Logging events  If a node needs to log something to the console, it can use one of the follow  functions:  node.log("Something happened");  node.warn("Something happened you should know about");  node.error("Oh no, something bad happened");  Where the console output appears will depend on how your operating system and  how you start   aXet.flows . If you start using a command line   -   that is the console  where logging will appear. If you run as a system service then it may appear in the  system log. If you run under an app like PM2 it will have it’s own way for showing  logs.  The warn and error messages also get sent to the debug tab on the right side of the  flow editor.  For finer grained logging, node.trace() and node.debug() are also available. If there  is no logger configured to capture those levels, they will not be seen.  Handling errors  If the function encounters an error that should halt the current flow, it should  return nothing. To trigger a Catch node on the same tab, the function should call  node.error with the original message as a second argument:  node.error("hit an error", msg);  Storing data  Aside from the msg object, the function can also store data in the context store.
In the Function node there are three predefined variables that can be used to  access context:  •   context   -   the node’s local context  •   flow   -   the flow scope context  •   global   -   the global scope context  The following examples use flow context, but apply equally well to context and  global.  There are two modes for accessing context; either synchronous or asynchronous.  The built - in context stores provide both modes. Some stores may only provide  asynchronous access and will throw an error if they are accessed synchronously.  To get a value from context:  var myCount = flow.get("count");  To set a value:  flow.set("count", 123);  The following example maintains a count of how many times the function has been  run:  // initialise the counter to 0 if it doesn't exist already  var count = context.get('count')||0;  count += 1;  // store the value back  context.set('count',count);  // make it part of the outgoing msg object  msg.count = count;  return msg;  Get/Set multiple values  It is also possible to get or set multiple values in one go:  var values = flow.get(["count", "colour", "temperature"]);  // values[0] is the 'count' value  // values[1] is the 'colour' value  // values[2] is the 'temperature' value  flow.set(["count", "colour", "temperature"], [123, "red",  "12.5"]);
In this case, any missing values are set to null.  Asynchronous context access  If the context store requires asynchronous access, the get and set functions  require an extra callback parameter.  // Get single value  flow.get("count", function(err, myCount) { ... });  // Get multiple values  flow.get(["count", "colour"], function(err, count, colour) { ...  })  // Set single value  flow.set("count", 123, function(err) { ... })  // Set multiple values  flow.set(["count", "colour"], [123, "red"], function(err) { ...  })  The first argument passed to the callback, err, is only set if an error occurred when  accessing context.  The asynchronous version of the count example becomes:  context.get('count', function(err, count) {  if (err) {  node.error(err, msg);  } else {  // initialise the counter to 0 if it doesn't exist  already  count = count || 0;  count += 1;  // store the value back  context.set('count',count, function(err) {  if (err) {  node.error(err, msg);  } else {  // make it part of the outgoing msg object  msg.count = count;  // send the message  node.send(msg);  }  });
}  });  Multiple context stores  The get/set context functions accept an optional parameter to identify the store to  use.  // Get value   -   sync  var myCount = flow.get("count", storeName);  // Get value   -   async  flow.get("count", storeName, function(err, myCount) { ... });  // Set value   -   sync  flow.set("count", 123, storeName);  // Set value   -   async  flow.set("count", 123, storeName, function(err) { ... })  Global context  The global context can be pre - populated with objects when   aXet.flow s starts. This  is defined in the main settings.js file under the functionGlobalContext property.  This can be used to load additional modules within the Function node.  Adding Status  The function node can also provide it’s own status decoration in the same way that  other nodes can. To set the status, call the node.status function. For example:  node.status({fill:"red",shape:"ring",text:"disconnected"});  node.status({fill:"green",shape:"dot",text:"connected"});  node.status({text:"Just text status"});  node.status({});   // to clear the status  Any status updates can then also be caught by the Status node.  Loading additional modules  Additional node modules cannot be loaded directly within a Function node. They  must be loaded in your settings.js file and added to the functionGlobalContext  property.
For example, the built - in os module can be made available to all functions by  adding the following to your settings.js file.  functionGlobalContext: {  osModule:require('os')  }  at which point, the module can be referenced within a function as  global.get('osModule').  Modules loaded from your settings file must be installed in the same directory as  the settings file.  By setting functionExternalModules to true in you settings.js file, the Function  node’s edit dialog will provide a list where you can add additional modules that  should be available to the node. You also specify the variable that will be used to  refer to t he module in the node’s code.  Handling a Timeout  It is possible to set a timeout for the function node on the Setup tab. This value, in  seconds, is how long the runtime will allow the Function node to run for before  raising an error. If set to 0, the default, no timeout is applied.  In case none of the nodes of the tool explicitly provide the functionality you  need, and additionally this is so limited that it is not worth developing new  nodes, you can lower the level of abstraction that the tool provides by default  and directly code t he expected behavior in JavaScript, in a simple manner. For  this, you will have available the ‘msg’ object   which will contain all the flow  information at the execution step we are at the moment of execution.  AI Assistant  This is the AI assistant from   aXet.flows .  When you start it, a window opens with two   options:   aXet.talk   and  aXet.playground .
•   aXet.talk . By selecting this option, you will get an application to which you just  have to add the credential configuration for it to be operational.  Once the assistant has been executed, you can review the automatically  created nodes.
After finishing implementing the application, you can run it clicking on  the   ‘Deploy’   button.  •   aXet.playground . By selecting this option, you will obtain an application that  will allow you to make inquiries to the AI, once you have connected  to   aXet.enabler .  Once the assistant has been executed, you can review the automatically  created nodes.
After finishing implementing the application, you can run it clicking on  the   ‘Deploy’   button.  Flows Assistant  The assistants you can find in this section will help you generate flows quickly.  These are the available options:  •   From a Form.io.   Allows you to create a database, and a search and CRUD  system from a form designed in   aXet.flows .
•   From LocalStorage DB.   Allows the creation of a CRUD maintenance  system and RESTful API endpoints from a database designed in   aXet.flows .  •   XLSX to LocalStorage.   Allows you to create a database from an Excel file in  XLSX format. Create a database for each sheet of the Excel file.  •   Import/Export LocalStorage.   Since the databases of a development  project are encrypted so that only it can use them, this assistant allows  transferring the databases from one development project to another.  •   Migrate to ext. database.   Allows exporting the internal databases used by  an application designed with   aXet.flows   to an external non - SQL database  like MongoDB or Cassandra.  •   Apply Auth App.   Allows you to automatically generate an authentication  layer for your application.   You have different options available.  OKTA Authentication . This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.  Configure your app to use   OKTA Authentication Login   type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  Basic Authentication . This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.  Generate a default administrator user ( admin/admin )
Configure your app to use   basic authentication login   type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  ADFS NTT Data Authentication . This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.  Configure your app to use ADFS NTT Data authentication login type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  MD|ONE Single Sign On .   This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.  Configure your app to use ADFS NTT Data authentication login type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  LDAP Authentication . This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.  Configure your app to use LDAP authentication login type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  After apply this authentication method, is necessary to configure the LDAP  Domains on the application node. The configuration will open automatically when  the process finish.  CAS Authentication .   This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.  Configure your app to use CAS authentication login type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  After apply this authentication method, is necessary to configure the CAS URL. The  configuration will open automatically when the process finish.  OpenID Connect . This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.
Configure your app to use OpenID authentication login type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  After applying this authentication method, you need to configure some parameters  on the application node. The configuration will open automatically when the  process finish.  Azure Active Directory Authentication . This authentication method will:  Generate a local - storage database for persist users  Generate CRUD forms for manage users.  Configure your app to use Azure AD authentication login type.  Configure your app site - map with a new administrator area, with user  management form.  After applying this authentication method, you need to configure some parameters  on the application node.   The configuration will open automatically when the  process finish.  •   From a Database.   If your application has meta - information related to the  database it uses, this assistant allows you to automatically generate a  database maintenance system.  After finishing implementing the application, you can run it clicking on  the   ‘Deploy’   button.  Deploy  You have finished designing your flow, now you can deploy it. Click on  the   'Deploy'   button.  You can find three options to deploy your flow:
•   Full . Deploys everything in the workspace.  If you select this option currently running flows are interrupted and  restarted.  •   Modified Flows . Only deploys flows that contain changed nodes.  •   Modified Nodes . Only deploy nodes that have changed.  The last two options can be really handy when you have different flows spread  across your workspace or tabs but you don't want to reload them all each time you  deploy. This way, nodes and/or flows that haven’t been modified will continue to  run without int erruption.  You can find also the option to   Restart Flows , that restart the current deployed  flows. This means that currently running flows are interrupted and restarted.  When a message informs you that the process has been successfully completed,  you can run the application.  Save in Cloud  Once you have developed your flows for your development project, it is time to  collaboratively store it in the   aXet.flows   cloud. To do this, click on the   ‘Save in  Cloud!’   button and a popup like the following image will appear:  You need to enter the required information to create a new version of the  development project:  •   Version alias   (the use of XYZ versioning rules is recommended).
•   Version description .  Once this is done, by clicking the   ‘Save’   button, the designer will communicate  with   aXet.flows   cloud to store all the information of the coding flows of the  development project. In this way, a new version of the software associated with the  development project is stored, which can be reproduced and executed on any  other PC that has the   aXet.flows   platform installed.  This way, we achieve collaborative management/execution of development  projects. The software is developed by one or more actors and can also be  executed/used by one or more end users.  Production Deployment  You have already developed your application using the nodes from the palette and  the assistants provided by   aXet.flows , you have deployed it locally and managed  versions of the development project. Now it's time to deploy the application in  production.  With   aXet.flows   there are two ways to deploy your application in  production,   cloud   and   standalone .   You must take into account:  •   If there is no   'app'   node in your application's flow, you will only be able to  deploy it in standalone mode.  •   If you want to deploy your application in the cloud, you must include  an   'app'   node in its design.  •   If you have used an   'app'   node in the design of your application and  this   'app'   node also uses OKTA as a login method, you will be able to deploy  the application in cloud and standalone mode.  Select the development project from the Catalog and click   'Run this one!'   to be  able to deploy in production. Then, click   on   D eploy'   icon,   as you can see in the  image bellow,   to start the production deployment.  This action opens a new window to launch the required analysis of your project.
Before deploy your application in production you must pass the following analysis:  •   Audit Status.   Click on   ‘Request audit’   to launch the audit of your  development project.   An   aXet.flows   team will audit the project to ensure  that nothing improper is being done, nor is there any unregistered use of AI.  Furthermore, it will verify that the use cases selected when registering the  development project are appropriate and properly informed in the flows.  Remember that you must use the   'use case'   nodes to inform the use cases  that resolve each of the flows you have designed in your development  project.  The validity of a successfully passed audit is 6 months, in any case, the user  can see the validity date in the same window.  •   Security Analysis Status.   Click on ‘Scan’ to launch the   security analysis  that   will verify that the project has the necessary security conditions to be  published.  If either of the two analyses are not successfully passed,   aXet.flows   will inform  you of the issues found and how to resolve them. Once corrected, you will need to  run the analyses again.  With the two analyses executed and successfully passed, you can deploy your  application in production.  Digital Workers  You have already seen how to develop web applications and desktop applications  using   aXet.flows , and that you have nodes in the palette that allow you to create  the interface for these applications.  But if what you need is to develop an automation without an interface to run it  unattended,   aXet.flows   has a category of nodes that will help you create it.   This  category is   'Worker' .
If you want to consult detailed information about each of the nodes available  in the palette, select it in the workspace and choose the 'info' tab in the right  sidebar.  Add a   'Run Worker'   node to your flow to be able to execute it unattended.  To start/stop the execution of your application, you must go to the main page  of   aXet.flows   and select the   'Digital Workers ' section. Here you will find all your  development projects that use   'Worker'   nodes with information about their status,  buttons to start or stop their execution, and log consultation.  Flows Repository  In this menu you can find three items:   Nodes Libraries ,   Shared Subflows   and   All  Rankings . You will see each one of them.  Nodes Libraries  This section shows the available Nodes Libraries developed by   aXet.flows   users.
On the right panel you can find the   ‘Most Used ’ and the   ‘Highest Rated’   Nodes  Libraries.  By default, you see all the Nodes Libraries, but if you are looking for one, you can  filter by last update, by project or by name, as you can see at the top of the image.  This is the information you can find in each of the node libraries:  •   Name , in the header of the card.  IMPORTANT: The name of all libraries must have the name "deptapps - flows -  contrib - *". If another name is given to the library in the package.json file, the  DEPTAPPS platform will detect incorrect use of the archetype and will not  allow the library to be load ed.  •   MD|ONE project   assigned to   aXet.flows .  •   Associated MD|ONE projects . These are additional projects to the  previous one, whose users will be able to use the library, but will not be able  to upload new artifacts of the library, that is, they will not be able to evolve  it.  •   Creation date.  •   Last modification date.  •   Last user who modified the library .  These are the actions you can perform with the selected library:  •   Like . Allows you to like the library in question, with the aim of positive rating  for community type libraries enabling other users to view the library usage  and reputation at a glance.
•   Dislike . Allows you to like the library in question, with the aim of negative  rating for community type libraries enabling other users to view the library  usage and reputation at a glance.  •   Delete . Allows for a logical deletion of the library in question.  •   Edit . Allows you to edit a library. The following data can be edited:  o   URL of the source code repository where the library is stored.  o   MD|ONE project associated with the library.  o   Description.  o   Upload a new version of the library packaging, with an update of the  source code. IMPORTANT: To upload new versions, it is very  important to modify the version field of the library's package.json  file. If an existing or previously used version is  used,   aXet.flows   website will not allow the upload of the node  library.  •   Access to the library in the private NPM Registry of   aXet.flows   where the  libraries are being managed.  •   Access to the source code repository.  Click on   'Export'   button to download the result of your search in Excel file format.  Nodes libraries are created in aXet.flows designer  To use a   Node Library   in the   designer , follow these steps:  1.   Expand the menu in the upper right corner.  2.   Select the   ‘Settings’   item.  3.   In the window that has opened, select   ‘Palette’   and the   ‘Private  Libraries’   tab.  4.   Look for the node library you are interested in using in your flow and click on  the   ‘Install’   button.
5.   You have the node library available in the palette.  Shared Subflows  This section shows the available Shared subflows developed by   aXet.flows   users.  On the right panel you can find the   ‘Most Used ’ and the   ‘Highest Rated’   Shared  subflows.  By default, you see all the Shared subflows , but if you are looking for one, you can  filter by project or by name, as you can see at the top of the image.
You can also click on   'Advanced Search'   button and a form will open for you to  refine the search.  The actions you can carry out on the   ‘Subflows’   are as follows:  •   Like.   Allows you to give   ‘Like ’ to the flow in question, with the aim that the  shared flows that are of community type which can be used by any member  of the   aXet.flows   community, can be positively rated, so that other users  can see at a glance the usage of the shared flow, as well as its reputation.  •   Dislike.   Allows you to give   ‘Dislike’   to the flow in question, with the aim that  the shared flows that are of community type which can be used by any  member of the   aXet.flows   community, can be negatively rated, so that  other users can see at a glance the usage of the shared flow, as well as its  reputation.  •   Delete.   Allows you to perform a logical deletion of the (sub)flow in  question.  •   Edit.   Allows you to edit a (sub)flow. Among the data that can be edited are  the following:  o   Name of the subflow.  o   MD|ONE project to which it is associated.  o   Description of the subflow.  o   The versions tab will simply allow us to view the different versions of  the subflow that have been published on   aXet.flows .  Click on   'Export'   button to download the result of your search in Excel file format.  Shared subflows must be created inside a aXet.flows instance  To use a   Shared Subflow   in the   designer , follow these steps:  1.   Expand the menu in the upper right corner.  2.   Select the   ‘Settings’   item.  3.   In the window that has opened, select   ‘Palette’   and the   ‘Shared flows’   tab.  4.   Look for the shared flow you are interested in using in your flow and click on  the   ‘Install’   button.
5.   You have the shared flow available in the palette.  All Rankings  In this section, you can find the most used and highly rated node libraries and  shared subflows by   aXet.flows   users. Select each of the four tabs to view the  listings.
Nodes Libraries  By using this functionality, you can create your own nodes and thus extend the  possibilities offered by   aXet.flows .  Creating Nodes  There are some general principles to follow when creating new nodes. These  reflect the approach taken by the core nodes and help provided a consistent user -  experience.  Nodes should:  •   Be well - defined in their purpose.   A node that exposes every possible  option of an API is potentially less useful that a group of nodes that each  serve a single purpose.  •   Be simple to use, regardless of the underlying functionality.   Hide  complexity and avoid the use of jargon or domain - specific knowledge.  •   Be forgiving in what types of message properties it accepts.   Message  properties can be strings, numbers, booleans, buffers, objects, arrays or  nulls. A node should do The Right Thing when faced with any of these.  •   Be consistent in what they send.   Nodes should document what properties  they add to messages, and they should be consistent and predictable in  their behaviour.  •   Catch errors.   If a node throws an uncaught error,   aXet.flows   will stop the  entire flow as the state of the system is no longer known.  Wherever possible, nodes must catch errors or register error handlers for any  asynchronous calls they make.  To implement your own nodes, you must build a NodeJS project. These nodes must  comply with the archetype that you will find at this   link .  Nodes consist of a pair of files:  •   A JavaScript file that defines the runtime behavior of the node.  •   An html file defines how the node appears with the editor. It contains three  distinct part, each wrapped in its own   <script>   tag:  o   The main node definition that is registered with the editor. This  defines things such as the palette category, the editable properties
(defaults) and what icon to use.   It is within a regular javascript script  tag.  o   The edit template that defines the content of the edit dialog for the  node. It is defined in a script of type   text/html   with   data - template -  name   set to the   type of the node.  o   The help text that gets displayed in the Info sidebar tab. It is defined  in a script of type   text/html   with   data - help - name   set to the   type of  the node.  A   package.json   file is used to package it all together as an npm module. Here is a  typical directory structure for a node package:  Uploading Nodes in   aXet.flows  Once you have created and tested your node, it's time to upload it to   aXet.flows   so  that other users of the tool can use it. Access the   ‘Nodes Libraries’   section and  click on the button   ‘Lets go’ .  Complete the mandatory fields in the pop - up window:
1.   Upload the .json file in which you have packaged the node, and you will see  that the fields are automatically filled with your node's information.  2.   You must add the following information:  a.   MD|ONE Project. Users belonging to this project will be able to use  and also evolve the shared workflow.  b.   You can also share your node with the entire .flows community  (Optional).  3.   In the   ‘Extra Info’   tab, you can modify the library's description.  4.   To publish the node, use the   ‘NPM Package Upload’   tab and upload the  artifact again.  Subflows  A subflow   is a collection of nodes that are collapsed into a single node in the  workspace.  They can be used to reduce some visual complexity of a flow, or to package up a  group of nodes as a reusable flow used in multiple places.  Once created, the subflow is added to the palette of available nodes. Individual  instances of the subflow can then be added to the workspace just like any other  node.  A subflow cannot contain an instance of itself   -   either directly or indirectly.
Creating an empty subflow  A subflow can be created by selecting the   ‘Subflow   - > Create subflow’   option in the  menu. This will create a blank subflow and open it in the workspace.  You can add the components to the workspace to design the subflow.  Converting nodes to a subflow  It is also possible to convert the current selection of nodes to a subflow by  selecting the   ‘Subflow   - > Selection to Subflow’   option in the menu. The nodes will  be moved to a new subflow and replaced by a subflow instance node within the  flow.
Editing a subflow  There are two ways to open a subflow   to edit its contents. Either double click its  node in the palette, or click the   ‘Edit flow template’   button in the edit dialog of a  subflow instance node.  The subflow is opened in the workspace as a new tab. Unlike regular flow tabs,  subflow tabs can be closed to hide them.  Share a subflow  Once you have created your subflow, and it has been tested, it is time to share it.  The   ‘Share flow in cloud’   button is available.  By clicking on this button, the process to share the subflow in the   cloud   and make  it importable by other development projects is initiated. When the button is  pressed, a popup appears where you can enter the necessary data to share the  subflow and store it in the cloud.  The fields to complete are as follows:  •   Subflow name . Corresponds to the name that the subflow will have.  Automatically, the name that the subflow   has in the designer will be used to  share it in the cloud.
•   Subflow description . More detailed description of the flow, which will also  be automatically completed with the information added in the flow  designer.  •   MD|ONE project   (mandatory). The shared subflow must be assigned to a  project among the projects where the user is registered in the system. Users  belonging to this project will be able to use and also evolve the shared flow.  •   Associated MD|ONE projects   (optional). Other projects different from the  main project associated with the shared subflow that will allow users  associated with these secondary projects to import the subflow in the flow  designer. Users belonging to these projects will have access to   the shared  subflow in "read - only" mode, that is, they will not be able to consolidate  new versions of the subflow through the flow designer.  •   Share with the entire DEPTAPPS corporate community?   (optional) If you  check this checkbox, any user from   aXet.flows   community will be able to  import the subflow in the flow designer. Users belonging to these projects  will have access to the shared subflow in "read - only" mode, that is, they will  not be able to consolidate new versions of the subflow through the flow  des igner.  •   Version alias . Semantic versioning is recommended ( https://semver.org/ ).  •   Version description.   Once the node is created/shared in the cloud, you will  have access to it, from the palette management (Manage Palette) to be able  to install it, although in your case it is already installed.  Once the subflow has been shared, you must take into account two very important  aspects:  •   If you press the   ‘Share flow in cloud’   button again on the previously created  subflow, a new version will be created.  •   You can see that in the designer of the (sub)flow a new button appears,  which allows us to execute the   ‘Unlink from cloud! ’ action. This action  allows you to unlink the subflow from the cloud, so that if you press  the   ‘Shared flow in cloud!’   button again, a new subflow will be created along  with a first version.  Certified Libraries  aXet.flows   is based on NODE - RED, and therefore, you can install any third - party  library from the NODE - RED developer community, making it possible to use all the
libraries published at https://flows.nodered.org/, and have new nodes available to  program your flows. However, these libraries, being open source and developed by  the community, may contain undesirable quality, or you may find that the  implemented nodes d o not work correctly.  The objective of the   ‘Certified Libraries’   is that the   aXet.flows   team will add  information about those libraries/nodes that are considered certified. This means  they have previously been installed and tested.  You can use the other third - party libraries, but like any open - source software from  the community (see the thousands of repositories that exist on GitHub), it may  happen that the node does not function properly or may not suit your needs after  using it. Yo u can find them in the   aXet.flow s designer by selecting  the   ‘Settings/Palette/Certified Libraries’   menu.
FAQs  aXet.flows has two versions of the designer. When should   I use one  or another?  If you are going to develop an application that is a web application, you should use  the web designer.  If you are going to develop an application that is a desktop application, you should  use the desktop version of the designer.  To select the version you are going to use, open   aXet.flows   context menu in the  systray.  Select the menu item   ‘Enable Flows Desktop in design mode’   if the asset you are  going to develop is a desktop application.  By default, the web designer will launch if you do not activate 'Enable Flows  Desktop in design mode.'  How to import and export a version in aXet.flows  To import a version in   aXet.flows , you must first have an exported version of a  Flow.  To export a version, you must be in a development project that has a saved version.
Expand the options of the version and click the   ‘Export Flow’   button, as indicated  in the following image:  The file with the .deptapp   extension of the desired version will be downloaded:  Once the version is downloaded, you must go to your development project where  you want to import the version and click the button called   ‘Import version’ , as  shown in the following image:  After selecting the file to import, a window will open where we can modify the  name and description of the version:
It will ask you for confirmation to lock the development project and it will be  created successfully:  How to import and export a flow in aXet.flows  To import a flow, you must first have an exported flow. Let's see the steps to export  a flow.
In the Flows designer, within the desired flow tab, go to the options of the flow  located in the upper right corner and click on the menu icon, then click on the  option called   ‘Export’ :  Next, a window will appear indicating the ways in which we can export the flow,  either as a file (by clicking the   ‘Download’   button) or by copying the JSON of the  flow to the clipboard (by clicking the   ‘Copy to clipboard’   button):  A detail to keep in mind here is that if you do not want to export the entire flow and  only want to export specific nodes, this can be done by selecting the nodes either  by dragging the cursor over them or by holding down the Ctrl key and clicking on  the n odes to be exported. The designer will highlight the selected nodes with an  orange border:
These nodes can also be exported by following the same steps as before in the  flow export process, and only the selected nodes will be exported.  Once you have chosen one of the export options, the next step is how to import it.  To do this, you need to use the designer menu mentioned earlier and select the  option called   ‘Import’ :  A window will open where we can enter the exported flow, either by copying it from  the clipboard or by selecting the exported .json file.
In this window, at the bottom, there is an option called   ‘Import to’   (shown in the  previous image), which indicates whether the imported flow will be placed in the  current flow or in a new flow. If current flow is selected, it will copy it to the current  flow, and if new flow is selected, it will create a new tab with the   imported flow.  Can I pass user credentials through msg?  For security reasons, it is not possible to make this change.  If the development project were allowed to modify the credentials, they would be  exposed since flow persistence is done without encryption.  Node creation and how to add created nodes to aXet.flows  To create a node bundle and add a new library or bundle in   aXet.flows , you must  follow the steps indicated in the documentation in Confluence. Here are the steps  to follow:
1 -   Node bundle creation  2 -   Creation of a new library/bundle  Using the view - action and rx - view - action nodes  Unlike the   view - action   node, the   rx - view - action   node sends information to  update the view in an unattended manner, without the user having to activate an  action by clicking a button. The view will be updated without the user relinquishing  control to the server (using WebSocket technology).  Attached is a simple flow in JSON format to import into   aXet.flows , with an  example that shows how the   rx - view - action   node's function performs an action  asynchronously to the   view - action   node:  Example - flow - view - action - and - rx - view - action  Issues with the VPN node?  The   ‘vpn - connect’   /   ‘vpn - disconnect’   nodes are based on the use of the  openconnect   utility, so it is necessary to have this command line interface (CLI)  installed:  - Windows:   rg/web/20210505224906/https://support.onevpn.com/windows - 10 -  openconnect . You can download the installer from  https://github.com/openconnect/openconnect - gui/releases .  - Linux: You can run   'sudo apt install openconnect'   in a command terminal.  Also, keep in mind that:  - VPNs with dual factor authentication do not work with openconnect.  - For faster support, ask the IT team how to connect to the VPN using the  openconnect command.  - The node has the ability to import .xml files that contain the configurations. For  example, in Cisco, they are located in the following path:  C: \ ProgramData \ Cisco \ Cisco AnyConnect Secure Mobility Client \ Profile***.xml
When starting my designer, it shows a message indicating missing  nodes to install  Don't worry, it is not an error, you just need to wait a little longer because those  nodes are being installed.  It is recommended that after a few seconds or a minute, refresh the designer to  verify that the nodes have been installed correctly and that they are in their proper  places.  aXet.flows load in Docker mode but not in Electron mode, what can  I do?  If this happens, you should delete the   .node - red   directory located in the user  folder of your computer.  Once the directory is deleted, you need to run   aXet.flows   in Electron mode again.  After that, the flows should be displayed correctly.  Additionally, you should check the version of NodeJS and NPM installed on your  computer, as an incompatible version of either of them could be causing the error.  The recommended version of NodeJS is 12.18.4, with a compatible version of NPM  being 6.14.6.  The exportable flows generated via Electron are not opening, what  can I do?  Probably the flows are not being loaded in   aXet.flows . Before generating the  exportable, you should check if the flows are being loaded correctly. If they are not,  you should delete the   .node - red   directory located in the user folder of your  computer.  Once the directory is deleted, you need to run the   aXet.flows   again in Electron  mode. After that, the flows should be displayed correctly and the exportable for  aXet.flows   can be generated.  Additionally, you should check the version of NodeJS and NPM installed on your  computer, as an incompatible version of either of them could be causing the error.  The minimum recommended version of NodeJS is 12.18.4, with a compatible  version of NPM being 6 .14.6.
Glossary  This is a glossary of relevant terms:  •   Node  A Node is the basic building block of a flow.  Nodes are triggered by either receiving a message from the previous node in  a flow, or by waiting for some external event, such as an incoming HTTP  request, a timer or GPIO hardware change. They process that message, or  event, and then may send a message t o the next nodes in the flow.  A node can have at most one input port and as many output ports as it  requires.  •   Configuration node  A Configuration (config) Node is a special type of node that holds reusable  configuration that can be shared by regular nodes in a flow.  For example, the MQTT In and Out nodes use an MQTT Broker config node to  represent a shared connection to an MQTT broker.  Config nodes do not appear in the main workspace, but can be seen by  opening the Configuration nodes sidebar.  •   Flow  A Flow is represented as a tab within the editor workspace and is the main  way to organise nodes.  The term “flow” is also used to informally describe a single set of connected  nodes. So a flow (tab) can contain multiple flows (sets of connected nodes).  •   Context  Context is a way to store information that can be shared between nodes  without using the messages that pass through a flow.  There are three types of context:  Node   -   only visible to the node that set the value  Flow   -   visible to all nodes on the same flow (or tab in the editor)  Global   -   visible to all nodes  By default,   aXet.flows   uses an in - memory Context store so values do not  get saved across restarts. It can be configured to use a file - system based
store to make the values persistent. It is also possible to plug - in alternative  storage plugins.  •   Message  Messages are what pass between the nodes in a flow. They are plain  JavaScript objects that can have any set of properties. They are often  referred to as msg within the editor.  By convention, they have a “payload” property containing the most useful  information.  •   Subflow  A Subflow is a collection of nodes that are collapsed into a single node in  the workspace.  They can be used to reduce some visual complexity of a flow, or to package  up a group of nodes as a reusable component used in multiple places.  •   Wire  Wires connect the nodes and represent how messages pass through the  flow.  •   Palette  The Palette is on the left of the editor and lists of the nodes that are  available to use in flows.  Extra nodes can be installed into the palette using either the command - line  or the Palette Manager.  •   Workspace  The Workspace is the main area where flows are developed by dragging  nodes from the palette and wiring them together.  The workspace has a row of tabs along the top; one for each flow and any  subflows that have been opened.  •   Sidebar  The sidebar contains panels that provide a number of useful tools within the  editor. These include panels to view more information and help about a  node, to view debug message and to view the flow’s configuration nodes.
